Paper #: 16085_1
Title: Enhancing FAPbI 3 perovskite solar cell performance with a methanesulfonate-based additive †
We present a strategy to simultaneously enhance the efficiency and stability of perovskite solar cells by introducing a new pseudo-halide additive based on formamidinium methanesulfonate (FAMeSf). The optimal additive concentration of 2 mol% leads to improved efficiency of over 21% and superior stability of unencapsulated cells for over 3000 hours of storage time under near-ambient conditions. Our results highlight the importance of additive engineering in boosting the performance of FAPbI 3 perovskite solar cells.
Three-dimensional halide perovskites with a general formula of ABX 3 (where A = CH 3 NH 3 + (MA + ), CH(NH 2 ) 2 + (FA + ), Cs + ; B = Pb 2+ , Sn  2+  ; and X = Cl -, Br -, I -) have recently emerged as the nextgeneration photovoltaic materials.  1, 2  Owing to their facile solution-processing and extraordinary optoelectronic characteristics such as direct and tunable bandgap, long carrier diffusion length, and defect-tolerance,  [3] [4] [5]  solar cells based on halide perovskites have already achieved remarkable power conversion efficiencies (PCE) above 25%.  [6] [7] [8] [9]  The state-of-the-art perovskite solar cells (PSCs) use formamidinium lead iodide (FAPbI 3 ) as their main absorber material.  [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13]  It has a near-ideal bandgap of 1.48 eV with the projected Shockley-Queisser limit of 32%.  14, 15  Furthermore, FAPbI 3 is chemically and thermally more stable than conventionally used methylammonium lead iodide (MAPbI 3 ).  15, 16  Yet the spontaneous transformation of FAPbI 3 from the photoactive a-phase to the non-active d-phase under humid conditions is a major challenge towards practical applications.  16, 17  There have been various approaches to suppress the d-phase formation.  16, 18  These efforts mostly include compositional engineering of FAPbI 3 perovskite through partial substitution of FA + with MA + or Cs + , and I -with Br -.  [19] [20] [21]  However, the use of mixed-ion compositions results in unfavorable bandgap widening and phase segregation.  22  To minimize the changes in the perovskite composition and its optical properties, other strategies such as additive, 11-13 solvent,  10, 23  and interface  9, 24  engineering can be employed. Additive engineering is particularly interesting due to its ability to improve multiple aspects of PSCs simultaneously. For instance, chloride (Cl -)based additives, such as MACl, are typically added to the precursor mixture to not only stabilize the photoactive phase, but also promote better crystallization (through the formation of intermediate phases) and passivate the defect sites.  11, 25, 26  Notably, these volatile additives can be removed from perovskite lms during the annealing process, thus, not impacting the perovskite bandgap. On the other hand, there is also a growing interest in pseudo-halide additivessuch as those based on thiocyanates (SCN -), cyanides (CN -), and formates (HCOO -)that can help further improve the performance of FAPbI 3 PSCs.  12, 13  Recently, a methanesulfonate (CH 3 SO 3 -or MeSf -)-based additive has been reported to improve the efficiency of perovskite light-emitting diodes (PeLEDs),  27  while its uorinated analogue (CF 3 SO 3 -) has been shown to stabilize the perovskite surface in mixed-cation FA 1-x Cs x PbI 3 PSCs.  28  Intrigued to explore this pseudo-halide system, in this work, we synthesize a new additive based on formamidinium methanesulfonate (FAMeSf) to improve both the efficiency and stability of FAPbI 3 PSCs. To maintain consistency, we employed the same cation (FA + ) for both the additive and the main perovskite material. Our results demonstrate that a small amount of FAMeSf (2 mol% relative to PbI 2 ) added to the precursor solution signicantly improves the quality of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin lms and results in PSCs with over 21% PCE and a storage stability of more than 3000 hours under near-ambient conditions (28 °C and relative humidity (RH) of 30%) for unencapsulated samples. We also show that a further increase of the additive concentration inadvertently leads to poorer perovskite morphology and lower PCE values. We believe that our strategy for additive engineering can be an important step towards the commercialization of FAPbI 3 PSCs. First, we synthesized formamidinium methanesulfonate (FAMeSf) by reacting formamidinium acetate (FA + CH 3 COO -) with methanesulfonic acid (CH 3 SO 3 H) at ice-bath temperature (see the ESI † for details). The obtained material was recrystallized with diethyl ether and then characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) methods (Fig.  S1 † ). The 1 H-NMR spectrum of FAMeSf in deuterated dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO-d 6 ) conrmed the purity of the synthesized material, as indicated by the presence of both FA + (7.85 and 8.90 ppm, inset) and MeSf -(2.34 ppm) signals in stoichiometric ratios and the absence of precursor signals (Fig.  S1a † ). We however note that FAMeSf is hygroscopic, as it easily absorbs water under ambient conditions (70% RH), and the corresponding signal (3.32 ppm) appears in its 1 H-NMR spectrum. Meanwhile, the powder XRD patterns showed the crystalline nature of the as-synthesized FAMeSf and no change in its crystal structure even aer annealing at 150 °C for 15 min (Fig.  S1b † ). The slight difference in the peak intensities can be due to FAMeSf melting at around 100 °C and recrystallizing back when cooled down. To investigate the effect of the FAMeSf additive on the performance of PSCs, we fabricated a series of FAPbI 3 -based devices with different additive concentrations ranging from 0-5 mol% relative to PbI 2 . Fig.  1a  shows the n-i-p device conguration of the fabricated solar cells: glass/FTO/c-TiO 2 and m-TiO 2 as the electron transport layer (ETL)/FAPbI 3 (with 0-5 mol% FAMeSf)/octylammonium iodide (OAI)/Spiro-OMeTAD as the hole transport layer (HTL)/Au. The optimized devices based on pristine FAPbI 3 (with 0 mol% FAMeSf) achieved an average PCE of 18.9 ± 1.0%, while FAPbI 3 PSCs with an optimal FAMeSf additive concentration of 2 mol% displayed an improved average PCE of 19.8 ± 0.8% (Fig.  1b ). Increasing the additive concentration further to 5 mol%, however, resulted in the decline of average J sc , FF, and PCE values (Fig.  S2 † ). Notably, the fabricated PSCs showed negligible hysteresis, with a smaller hysteresis index in the presence of 2 mol% additive (Fig.  1c ). Furthermore, 2 mol% FAMeSf-added PSCs also demonstrated good reproducibility. The statistics of over 80 devices from different batches showed an average PCE of 19.0 ± 1.6%, with our champion device attaining an impressive PCE of 21.6% (Fig.  S3  †). This device exhibited higher EQE with an integrated J sc of 23.6 mA cm -2 as compared to 22.7 mA cm -2 for the pristine one (Fig.  1d ). Next, we monitored the long-term stabilities of the unencapsulated cells in a controlled environment under nearambient conditions (28 °C and 30% RH). Our results revealed that, aside from enhanced PCE, 2 mol% FAMeSf-added PSCs also display superior long-term stability with negligible PCE loss even aer more than 3000 hours of storage. In contrast, the pristine PSCs suffered from a ∼10% drop of their initial PCE (Fig.  1e ). Other photovoltaic parameters are compared in Fig.  S4 . † To discern the difference in PCEs, we carried out a detailed characterization of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin lms prepared using different FAMeSf additive concentrations (0, 2, and 5 mol%).  First, we measured the steady-state UV-vis absorption spectra of these lms (Fig.  2a ). The band edge cut-offs for all three samples were found to be around 780 nm, corresponding to the bandgap value of 1.52 eV estimated from the Tauc plots (Fig.  2a, inset ). Importantly, the 5% sample showed a reduced absorption below 650 nm, possibly due to the poor morphology and/or the presence of other species in its composition alongside the main perovskite phase. Meanwhile, the time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra revealed that the FAMeSf-added lms display signicantly longer carrier lifetimes as compared to the pristine one (Fig.  2b ). The average lifetime values estimated from bi-exponential tting of the TRPL curves were found to be around 157 ns, 431 ns, and 421 ns for 0%, 2%, and 5% samples, respectively (see Table  S1  † for details). Interestingly, the weight of the fast component, generally associated with surface recombination, was estimated to be the lowest for the 2% sample. This implies that 2% presents an optimal FAMeSf concentration that enables efficient surface passivation to enhance both efficiency and stability. Furthermore, the ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) measurement results revealed that adding FAMeSf also increases the valence band maximum (VBM) position by ca. 0.20-0.25 eV (Fig.  2c  and d ), making it closer to the energy level of spiro-OMeTAD (E HOMO = -5.22 eV). Better band alignment between the perovskite and the charge-transporting layers is essential to achieve higher PCEs (Fig.  S5 † ). Next, we took the eld emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) images of these lms to shed more light on their morphology and quality. As seen from Fig.  3a , both 2% and 5% lms have larger grain sizes (2-3 mm) as compared to the pristine lm (1-2 mm), indicating the key role of the FAMeSf additive in the perovskite crystallization. We however note that the excess additive concentration may also induce the formation of pinholes as in the case of 5% samples, having a detrimental effect on the device performance. Indeed, as evidenced from our results, 2% represents the optimal FAMeSf additive concentration enabling the pinhole-free lms with the highest average PCE (Fig.  1b ). To understand how the presence of additives alters the quality of perovskite thin lms, we studied the intermolecular interactions in precursor solutions using 1 H-NMR spectroscopy. We analyzed various perovskite solutions with a similar chemical composition to those used in device fabrication. Fig.  3b  (black line) displays the 1 H-NMR spectrum of a pure FAPbI 3 solution in a mixture of deuterated N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF-d 7 ) and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO-d 6 ) solvents (4 : 1 by volume). As expected, in the absence of additives, we only observed the signals from CH and NH 2 protons of FA + at 8.12 ppm and 8.92 ppm, respectively (grey regions).  29  The NH 2 signal (a) appeared relatively broader than the CH signal (b), possibly due to hydrogen bonding and/or Coulomb interactions of the amidinium (NH 2 ) group with other species in the solution.  30  Importantly, the addition of MACl to this solution at 35 mol% was found to cause a signicant broadening and an upeld shi of the NH 2 signal (a) (Fig.  3c , black line). This suggests that the FA + cation may undergo some partial deprotonation and rapid proton exchange in the presence of MACl.  30  On the other hand, the NH 3 group of MA + experiences an even faster exchange, as its signal (e) is totally absent in this solution. This is likely due to the more acidic character of MA + relative to FA + . Meanwhile, FAMeSf-added FAPbI 3 solutions displayed highly resolved 1 H-NMR spectra, irrespective of the MACl presence in the precursor solution (Fig.  3b  and c , blue and red lines). Both the CH and NH 2 signals ((b) and (a), respectively) split into multiplets, indicating the presence of coupling effects between the two. Such behavior may occur due to the relatively much slower proton exchange between the FA + cation and other species in the solution.  30  Interestingly, the NH 3 group of MA + also undergoes a retarded exchange in FAMeSf-added solutions, as its signal (e) re-appears on the corresponding spectra. We hypothesize that MeSf -plays a major role in modulating the chemical environment and intermolecular interactions that FA + cations experience, which likely dictates the perovskite crystallization kinetics and leads to larger grain sizes as observed by FESEM. Yet it is not entirely clear how different factors (e.g., acidity, coordination, or polarity) contribute to the process, and whether high-quality lms can be achieved without MACl. In this regard, further studies and molecular dynamics simulations could be necessary.  12  We next studied the structural changes associated with the addition of FAMeSf by analyzing the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the corresponding FAPbI 3 perovskite thin lms. As seen from Fig.  4a , the pristine sample has a preferential growth orientation along the h001i crystallographic direction as indicated by its major diffraction peak at ∼14°. Notably, both 2% and 5% FAMeSf samples displayed similar XRD patterns to their pristine counterpart, except for an additional peak at 8°( Fig.  4a ). Importantly, the relative intensity of this peak to the (001) peak at 14°increased with the additive concentration. However, we did not observe similar signals below 10°for both FAMeSf (Fig.  S1b † ) and the pure perovskite phase of FAPbI 3 . Thus, we suggest that the origin of this peak at 8°might be ascribed to low-dimensional phases.  31, 32  Meanwhile, to detect the inclusion of additives in the fabricated perovskite lms, we carried out 1 H-NMR measurements of their solutions in DMSO-d 6 . As seen from Fig.  4b , all three FAPbI 3 perovskite lms with 0, 2, and 5 mol% FAMeSf additive concentrations showed the clear presence of FA + species in their composition, as indicated by two signals at around 7.85 and 8.90 ppm (grey regions) on their corresponding 1 H-NMR spectra.  29  Next, even though MACl was expected to be completely removed from the perovskite lms aer annealing at 150 °C, we still observed the small presence of MA + (2.38 ppm,  30  cyan region) in all three samples at ∼5-7 mol% concentration relative to FA + (Table  S2  †). We also detected the presence of the FAMeSf additive in both 2% and 5% lms. It is worth noting that the observed signal from MeSf -at 2.32 ppm (orange region) overlapped with the satellite signal from DMSO-d 6 .  30  However, its integrated intensity increased with the additive concentration showing the nearly quantitative inclusion of FAMeSf in these lms at, respectively, 1.0 and 3.7 mol% relative to FA + (Table  S2   †). Importantly, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) depth proling results also veried the presence of sulfur-containing species, i.e. FAMeSf and/or its derivatives, in both 2% and 5% lms (Fig.  4c  and d ). The corresponding weak core-level S 2p signals appeared at ∼168 eV. Interestingly, these S-containing species were mostly found near the top-surface in 2% lms but distributed throughout the bulk in 5% lms. This likely contributed to the marginal difference in the band edge positions between the two samples measured by UPS (Fig.  2d ). On the other hand, in line with the 1 H-NMR results, the overall inclusion of sulfur-containing species was more noticeable for 5% lms as compared to 2% lms. We suspect that this entrapped species along with the poor perovskite lm morphology may indeed contribute to the inferior performance of PSCs at high FAMeSf concentrations, e.g. 5 mol%. However, more detailed studies are required to account for all structural and chemical changes in the perovskite lms with the addition of FAMeSf and their effects on the device performance, which, we note, is outside the scope of the current study. In conclusion, we presented a strategy to enhance both the efficiency and the stability of FAPbI 3 PSCs by using a new pseudo-halide additive based on formamidinium methanesulfonate (FAMeSf). We demonstrated that the addition of the optimal FAMeSf concentration of 2 mol% to the precursor solution results in a higher quality of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin lms, with larger grains and three-fold longer carrier lifetimes, as compared to the pristine lms. These superior features manifest in their maximum PCE of 21.6% and the robust stability without noticeable loss of the initial performance even aer more than 3000 hours of storage in a controlled environment under near-ambient conditions (28 °C and 30% RH). Thus, 2 mol% FAMeSf-added PSCs outperform the pristine samples in terms of both the PCE and the stability. Meanwhile, our characterization of FAMeSf-added lms revealed that the further increase of the FAMeSf additive concentration to 5 mol% adversely affects both the thin lm quality and the overall device performance. In 5% samples, we observed the formation of pinholes and additional low-dimensional phases which we suspect might also contribute to the poorer performance. To sum up, we believe that our work highlights the key role of methanesulfonate (MeSf -)-based additives in boosting the efficiency and the stability of PSCs and will be useful for practical applications of PSCs. Fig.  4  (a) 2q-Scan XRD patterns and (b) solution 1 H-NMR spectra of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin films prepared using different FAMeSf additive concentrations: 0 mol% (black), 2 mol% (blue), and 5 mol% (red). The shaded grey, cyan, and orange regions in the 1 H-NMR spectra correspond to FA + , MA + , and MeSf -species, respectively. XPS depth profiling of (c) 2 mol% and (d) 5 mol% FAMeSf-added perovskite films, revealing the presence of sulfur-containing species. Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 (a) Schematics of the fabricated FAPbI 3 PSCs. (b) Statistical distribution of PCEs of FAPbI 3 PSCs fabricated using different FAMeSf additive concentrations. (c) J-V curves measured in reverse (solid lines) and forward (dotted lines) scans and (d) IPCE spectra of both pristine (black) and 2 mol% FAMeSf-added (blue) PSCs. (e) Long-term stabilities of the corresponding unencapsulated PSCs in a controlled environment (28 °C and 30% RH) expressed as PCE versus time. 
 Fig. 2 2 Fig. 2 (a) UV-vis absorption spectra of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin films prepared using different FAMeSf additive concentrations: 0 mol% (black), 2 mol% (blue), and 5 mol% (red). Inset: the corresponding Tauc plots showing the bandgap value of 1.52 eV for all three samples. (b) TRPL spectra, (c) UPS, and (d) energy level diagrams of the three films. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 (a) FESEM images of FAPbI 3 perovskite thin films prepared using different FAMeSf additive concentrations: 0, 2, and 5 mol%. Scale bars: 1 mm. 1 H-NMR spectra of FAPbI 3 solutions in DMF-d 7 /DMSO-d 6 (4 : 1) (b) without and (c) with the addition of 35 mol% MACl at different FAMeSf concentrations: 0 mol% (black), 2 mol% (blue), and 5 mol% (red). The shaded grey, cyan, and orange regions in the 1 H-NMR spectra correspond to FA + , MA + , and MeSf -species, respectively. 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 Sustainable Energy Fuels, 2024, 8, 491-495 | 495
Paper #: 16085_2
Title: Enhancing FAPbI3 Perovskite Solar Cell Performance with a Methanesulfonate-Based Additive

Materials and Methods 
 Materials Formamidinium iodide (FAI), methylammonium chloride (MACl), and titanium dioxide paste (30 NR-D) were purchased from GreatCell Solar Limited. Lead Iodide (PbI2) was purchased from Tokyo Chemical Industries Co., Ltd. Formamidine acetate salt (FAAc), methanesulfonic acid (CH3SO3H), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), 4-tert-butyl pyridine (tBP), iso-propanol (IPA), lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide (Li-TFSI), acetylacetone, titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) 75 wt% in IPA, chlorobenzene were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. DMF-d7 and DMSO-d6 were purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc. Octylammonium Iodide (OAI) was synthesized following the previous procedure  (Koh et al. J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018 , 6, 2122 -2128) . Titanium (IV) chloride solution was purchased from Fujifilm Wako Pure Chemical Corporation. 2,2',7,7'-Tetrakis[N,N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)amino]-9,9'spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD) was purchased from Luminescence Technology Corp. Fluorinedoped tin oxide conductive substrate (FTO) was purchased from YingKuo Shangneng Photoelectric Materials. 
 Synthesis of Formamidinium Methanesulfonate (FAMeSf) Formamidinium acetate (FAAc, 99 %, Sigma Aldrich) was dissolved in ethanol and cooled in an ice bath for around 15 mins. Then, methanesulfonic acid (CH3SO3H) was added dropwise into the solution at 1.2 equivalent. The solution was stirred for 2 hours and subsequently dried via rotary evaporation at 40 °C. The resulting powder was then dissolved in ethanol and recrystallized with diethyl ether 5 times. 
 Perovskite Solar Cells Fabrication Substrate cleaning. FTO substrates were cleaned with decon soap, deionized water, and IPA via ultra-sonication for at least 15 mins in each washing solution/solvent. The substrates were further treated with UV-ozone for 15 mins at 100°C. 
 Electron transport layer (ETL). The compact TiO2 (c-TiO2) was deposited by spray pyrolysis using titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) diluted in IPA in 1:9 ratio + 4 vol% acetylacetone, followed by annealing at 450°C for 1 hour. The mesoporous TiO2 (m-TiO2) paste was prepared using titanium dioxide paste (30 NR-D) diluted in anhydrous ethanol in 1:9 ratio and deposited by spin coating at 3000 rpm for 30 s, followed by sintering at 500 °C for 1 hour. The FTO/c-TiO2/m-TiO2 substrates were then post-treated with titanium (IV) chloride (1:50 volume dilution with DI water) at 70°C for 30 mins, followed by annealing at 500°C for 1 hour. Perovskite deposition. Perovskite precursor solutions were prepared by dissolving 0.348 g FAI, 0.934 PbI2, and 35 mol% MACl (for better crystallization) in 1.5 ml DMF/DMSO solvent mixture of 4:1 ratio, respectively. Different concentrations of FAMeSf ranging from 0-5 mol% were added accordingly. The perovskite layer was deposited onto the FTO/c-TiO2/m-TiO2 substrate by spin coating at 6000 rpm for 50 s, and using chlorobenzene as antisolvent, followed by annealing at 150°C for 10 mins. Octylammonium iodide (0.01 g OAI dissolved in 3 ml IPA) was deposited as surface passivation by spin coating at 6000 rpm for 50 s without any post-annealing. Hole transport layer (HTL) and Au deposition. 72.3 mg of Spiro-OMeTAD was dissolved in 1 ml chlorobenzene with the addition of 28.5 μL TBP and 17.5 μL Li-TFSI (520 mg/ml in acetonitrile) as dopants. The Spiro-OMeTAD was deposited by dynamic spin-coating at 4000 rpm for 30 s. The 100-nm gold electrode layer was deposited by thermal evaporation as a back contact. 
 Characterizations Morphological characterization was done using a Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope (FESEM, JEOL JSM-7600F, 5 kV, and 10 mA). The steady-state absorbance spectra were recorded using UV-Vis-NIR Spectrophotometer (UV3600, Shimadzu). Time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements were carried out on a Picoquant PicoHarp 300 timecorrelated single-photon counting (TCSPC) setup using a 405 nm laser excitation. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected on a Bruker D8 Advance diffractometer with Cu Kα radiation. The proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR) spectra were recorded on a Bruker Advance II (400 MHz) spectrometer. The NMR samples were prepared by dissolving the solid material in DMF-d7 and DMSO-d6. The ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) and the Xray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed using an AXIS Supra spectrometer (Kratos Analytical Inc., UK). The etching was done using an Ar Gas Cluster Ion Source (GCIS, Kratos Analytical Inc., Minibeam) operated at 10 keV, Ar1000 + with a raster size of 2×2 mm 2 . The current density-voltage (J-V) curves were measured using AM 1.5 sunlight (Newport Oriel Sol3ATM) and a 450-Watt Xenon lamp calibrated using standard Si solar cell. The incident photon-to-current conversion efficiency (IPCE) was measured with PVE300 (Bentham).   Figure S1 . S1 Figure S1. (a) 1 H-NMR spectrum of FAMeSf in DMSO-d6, confirming the purity of the material. (b) Powder XRD patterns of FAMeSf before (black) and after (red) its annealing at 150°C for 15 mins, showing no degradation of the material at high temperatures. 
 Figure S2 . S2 Figure S2. Photovoltaic parameters of FAPbI3 PSCs fabricated using different FAMeSf additive concentrations: (a) PCE, (b) Jsc, (c) Voc, and (d) FF.
