Paper #: 19674_1
Title: Mitigating lattice strain and phase segregation of mixed-halide perovskite films via dual chloride additive strategy toward highly efficient and stable perovskite solar cells
Dual chloride strategy can reduce the defects induced by crystal distortions. • Microstrain of perovskite film is further released by the dual chloride strategy. • Active energy of phase segregation is improved by the dual chloride additive. • PSCs with dual chloride additive achieve better PCE with the superior stability.
Introduction Hybrid organic-inorganic perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have been made many significant strides by the outstanding dedication of researchers to boost the efficiency from 3.8% to 25.7% just within one decade  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] . High efficiency of PSCs is depended by the favorable intrinsic material properties of these perovskites such as long carrier diffusion length, high absorption coefficient and facile-adjusted band gaps  [9] [10] [11] . However, as the soft nature of the perovskite crystal lattice, the favored optical and electrical properties of perovskite materials are easily disrupted under environmental stresses and operating conditions, which can profoundly influenced the stability and efficiency of as-prepared PSCs  [12, 13] . For instance, ion migration and phase segregation related with photo-illumination reduces structural stability and increases defect concentration in perovskite films; and lattice residual strain formed in the fabricating process of perovskite films decreases the carrier mobility and raise the unwanted energy losses both in the absorber films and at interfaces with other contact layers  [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . These thorny problems indicate that the perovskite films are still necessary to be further optimized for enhancing stability and efficiency of PSCs to promote their industrial application. Tracking the development of high-performance PSCs, the eliminated defects and enhanced stability of perovskite films have been confirmed as an effective optimizing path  [20] [21] [22] [23] . To fabricate high-quality perovskite films, various halide and pseudohalide additives had been employed, such as PEAI, MACl, FASCN, etc., into the perovskite precursors or film surfaces  [24] [25] [26] . Many excellent endeavors revealed that these additives are favored to boost the grain growth, passivate the charged defects, enhance the structural stability, and improve the carrier transport in perovskite films  [27] [28] [29] . Among various workable additives, methylammonium chloride (MACl) additive has attracted the most interacts and been proved to possess notable advantages for improving the quality of perovskite films  [30, 31] . For instance, the chloride anion in MACl was reported to control the nucleation of perovskite films by forming the intermediates with PbI 2 , which can slow down the crystal growth rate leading to larger grain size and more uniform morphology  [32] [33] [34] . The chloride anions could stabilize the perovskite structure thermodynamically, which is beneficial to stable the α-phase of FAPbI 3 (FA is formamidinium)  [25] . Furthermore, the MA cation was considered as the active ingredient in perovskite to control the crystal orientation, which can improve the charge transport properties of perovskite films  [35] . However, the volatile property of MA cation in MACl is speculated to be harmful for the long-term stability of perovskites  [36, 37] . Recently, a smart method by mixing MACl and CsCl (cesium chloride) as the dual additive had been reported, which claimed that the dual additive can reduce trap density and prolong the stability of PSCs efficiently  [38] . Efforts were mainly focus on the passivation effects or the origin of the morphology control in perovskite films induced by chloride additives. Hence, it is critical to explore the substantial mechanisms of chloride additives for improving the crystal quality and stability of perovskites in the context of thermodynamics, and its immediate impact on the performance of as-prepared PSCs. In this work, we systematically investigated the effect of chloride additives through the chloride-additive composition engineering on the crystal quality, residual strain, and phase stability of perovskite films. Relevant experimental results exhibit that the microstrain is obviously decreased and the phase-segregation active energy (E a ) is significantly increased by introducing the MACl/CsCl dual additive into perovskite films compared with the pristine and the single chloride additive films. DFT calculation indicates that the energy barrier of iodide ion migration of perovskite crystal also can be further enhanced by the dual chloride additive, which is speculated as the main reason for the superior stability of the dual-additive perovskite films. Consequently, the dual-additive PSCs show better long-term stability and the efficiency of PSCs is increased from 20.62% to 22.94%. 
 Experimental details 
 Materials High permeability FTO conductive glass substrate with square resistance of 12 Ωsq -1 was purchased from Liaoning Optimum New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Titanium tetrachloride (TICl 4 ), formamidine hydroiodate (FAI), methyl ammonium iodide (MAI), methyl ammonium chloride (MACl), methyl ammonium bromide (MABr), cesium chloride (CsCl), 2,2 ′ ,7,7' -tetrakis (N,N -di-p-methoxyphenylamine)-9,9' -spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD), FK 209 Co(III) TFSI salt (FK209), 4-tert-butylpyridine (tBP) were purchased from Xi'an Baolight Technology Co., Ltd. Lead iodide (PbI 2 ), Dimethylformamide (DMF), Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP), Isopropanol (IPA), Chlorobenzene (CB), PC 61 BM, Phenethylmethoxy iodide (PEAI) and bistrifluoromethanesulfonimide lithium salt (Li-TFSI) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. 
 Solution preparation In order to prepare chloride perovskite precursor solutions doped with different concentrations, the FA 0.6 MA 0.4 Pb(I 0⋅97 Br 0.03 ) 3 precursor solution with 1.56 ev band gap was prepared by mixing 1.2 M FAI, 0.66 M MAI, 2 M PbI 2 , and 0.14 M MABr in 1 ml DMF:DMSO:NMP (8:1:1/v:v: v) mixed solvent, and stirring for 4 h, 7 mol% of excess PbI 2 was needed to improve the device performance. Then, different concentrations of MACl and CsCl were added to the perovskite precursor solution, and stirred at room temperature in a glove box for more than 3 h. To formulate the Spiro-OMeTAD solution, 76 mg of Spiro-OMeTAD powder was dissolved in 1 ml of chlorobenzene (CB), and then 30 μl of 4-tertbutylpyridine (TBP), 20 μl of lithium bistrifluoromethanesulfonimidatec solution (LI-TFSI), 23 μl of FK 209 Co(III) TFSI salt (FK209) were added to the Spiro-OMeTAD solution as additives, and then stirred at room temperature for more than 10 h in a glove box. 
 Device fabrication First of all, the high permeability FTO conductive glass substrate in the ultrasonic cleaner with DI-water, acetone, ethanol treatment respectively 15 min. Then the dried FTO substrate was treated in a UV ozone cleaner for 15mim, and the treated FTO substrate was deposited in a water bath at 70 • C for 30 min by chemical water bath method using TiCl 4 /DI-water solution (v:v = 1:8). Then PC 61 BM solution (1.5 mg/ml in CB) was coated on TiO 2 electron transport layer at 5000 rpm for 20 s, and then annealed on a hotplate at 110 • C for 10 min to obtain PCBM coating. To prepare the perovskite film, firstly, the perovskite solution was evenly dropped on the PCBM coating and spun coated at 7000 rpm for 30 s. During the spinning process, 800 μl of diethyl ether was punched on the films after 8 s. And then the yellow transparent films were transferred on a hotplate, and annealed at 155 • C for 20 min to obtain the black perovskite films. After that, PEAI solution (2.5 mg/ml in IPA) was spin-coated on those perovskite films at 5000 rpm for 20 s, and then placed at room temperature for more than 5 min to obtain the PEAI passivation layer. The hole transport layer was fabricated by dropping Spiro-OMeTAD solution on the PEAI layer and spun coated at 5000 rpm for 20 s. Finally a Au electrode with 100 nm thickness was evaporated by the vacuum evaporation equipment. 
 Characterization The photocurrent density-voltage (J-V) curves of perovskite solar cells (PSCs) were obtained by solar simulator (Amazing Light SS-F5-3 A) and source meter (Keithley 2400) with IVS-KA5000 measurement software at AM 1.5G (100mwcm -2 ). The EQE was measured using an EQE system equipped with a 300 W xenon lamp as the white light source. The surface and cross-section morphology of the perovskite films were obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (HITACHI Regulus SU8100). XRD patterns of the perovskite films were obtained by X-ray diffractometer (XRD) (UItima IV X-ray diffractometer, Cu-Kα radiation λ = 0.15406 nm). The absorption of the films was characterized by UV spectrophotometer (UV-1900). Steady-state photoluminescence (PL) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra were measured using a fluorescence spectrometer (Epsilon 3XLE). EIS measurements were obtained using a frequency response analyzer (PSM1700) under dark conditions with a bias applied at 0.95 V. The trap densities of the perovskite films was obtained by SCLC test. 
 DFT calculation The structural optimization and electronic structure calculations were carried out by Cambridge Serial Total Energy Package (CASTEP) in Materials studio. The generalized gradient approximation (GGA) of the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional was employed. Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (BFGS) algorithm was used for the structural optimization of the model with the following optimization parameters: the calculation was expanded by using the ultrasoft pseudopotential with a cutoff energy of 435 eV, and the total energy was converged to 2 × 10 -5 eV. The structural optimization was optimized until the force tolerance on each atom was smaller than 0.05eVÅ -1 , the stress tolerance was smaller than 0.1 GPa, and the displacement tolerance was smaller than 0.002 Å. The Monkhorst-Pack grids with the actual spacing of 0.077 Å -1 and SCF tolerance of 1 × e -6 eV/atom were used in all DFT simulations. A supercell with a 2 × 2 × 1 periodicity was used in all cases. Iodide migration activation energies were modeled for FAPbI 3 , MA 0.5 FA 0.5 PbI 3 and Cs 0.25 MA 0.25 FA 0.5 PbI 3 . Iodide vacancy was initially set in the axial and equatorial positions in the supercell, corresponding to the defect in the initial and final structure, respectively. Initial and final structures were first optimized, then a linear interpolation consisting of 13 grid points between them were employed to define the migration process. We select the highest transition state energy as the ion migration barrier. 
 Results and discussion It has been widely realized that the high-quality perovskite film is the fundamental condition for fabricating high performance PSCs. Thus, the crystal quality of perovskite films with various ratios of chloride additives had been characterized firstly. As shown in Fig.  1a , the Urbach energy (E U ) of perovskite films with various ratios of chloride additives was estimated from the slop of the Tauc plot (as shown in Fig.  S1 ), which is related to the structural disorder in materials  [39, 40] . It can be seen that the value of E U decreases continuously with the increase of the additive concentration. When the additive concentration comes to a high level, the E U of perovskite films show an increasing trend for all kinds of chloride additives. The lowest E U of the perovskite films with MACl or CsCl are 41.77 and 40.76 meV, corresponding to the additive concentration of 10 mg/ml and 15 mg/ml, respectively. Then we chose the perovskite film with MACl concentration of 10 mg/ml as the research object to study the situation that substitute MACl by CsCl with various ratios. Compared with the perovskite films with single MACl or CsCl, the films with dual additive (MACl/CsCl) exhibits lower E U under the suitable concentrations as shown in Fig.  1a  (inset). The lower E U values indicate that the perovskite films with dual additive possess less structural disorder and better crystal quality. To detect the crystalline characteristics of perovskite films with various chloride additives more accurately, X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurement was employed. From the XRD patterns as shown in Fig.  1b , it is clear that the chloride additive, regardless of single or dual additive, can eliminate the PbI 2 peak at 12.66 • , and the peaks related to the cubic perovskite at 13.98 • , 24.39 • , and 28.25 • display sharper peak shapes than the pristine film. This is attributed to the chloride additives can promote the grain growth of perovskite by controlling the nucleation rate at the fabricating process  [41] . The surface morphology of these films measured by SEM also corroborated this trend as shown in Fig.  S2 . Then, we magnified XRD peaks assigned to (001) and (002) crystal planes of those perovskite films to further explore the differences of these characteristic peaks as shown in Fig.  1c . It is obvious that these peaks gradually shifted to higher angles, which means that the crystal lattices of perovskite shrink according to the Braggs law, nλ = 2d hkl sinθ  [42] . It is well known that the expansion and contraction of crystal lattice reflect the changes of strain property of films. Accordingly, we further quality the microstrain in these films through the Williamson-Hall (WH) plot method as reported elsewhere  [43, 44] . The individual plots were showed in Fig.  S3 . As shown in Fig.  1d , the strain decreased obviously after inducing the chloride additive (MACl or CsCl), and the strain corresponding to the perovskite film with dual chloride additive (MACl/CsCl) displayed the lowest value compared with other films. This could be contributed that the small-radius MA + and Cs + cations from chloride additives may incorporate into the lattice of FA-based perovskite, which can decrease the distortion of lattice planes induced by the large-radius FA cations, and facilitate to release the lattice strain related with the crystal distortion as shown in Fig.  1e . The lower strain value is associated with the better crystal quality of dual-additive perovskite film with lower lattice mismatch, better carrier dynamics, and higher phase stability  [45, 46] . To figure out the effect of various chloride additives on the stability of perovskite crystal theoretically, we performed density functional theory (DFT) to calculate the activation energy for the iodide ion migration. We chose the iodide ion to study because it has the lowest activation energy, and is the easiest to migrate  [47, 48] . The detail of DFT model and further calculation processes were provided in the Supporting Information. The pathway of iodide ion migration for perovskite crystals was also displayed in Fig.  S4 . As shown in Fig.  2a-c , the transition state structures of perovskite crystal without and with chloride additives (with MACl and with MACl/CsCl) were exhibited, respectively. The activation energy for the pristine perovskite is 0.41 eV consistent with previous reports  [14, 49] . For the perovskite with chloride additive, regardless of the single or dual additive (MACl or MACl/CsCl), the values of activation energy emerge the significant improvements compared with the pristine, which indicates the iodide ions would meet higher potential barrier to migrate under the same conditions. Excitingly, the highest activation energy of 0.57 eV was achieved from the perovskite with dual additive, which is superior to the one with single MACl additive. This is conjectured to be associated with the improvement of crystal quality of perovskite with dual additive, which possesses lower crystal distortion and lower residual strain confirmed by the above experimental results. According to the above theoretical analyses, the perovskite films with dual additive were expected to have more stable property under environment stress than the pristine and the single-additive films. To verity that supposition, steady-state photoluminescence (PL) spectra of those perovskite films under a series of harsh environment conditions had been examined in ambient air. During the environment stress measurement, we kept all of the films under the continuous illumination (AM 1.5G) and changed the environment temperature from room temperature (~23 • C) to 100 • C. The ageing time was also changed to define the rate of phase segregation in different detected films. Photo of stressing experiment were proved in Fig.  S5 , and the relative humidity of testing environment is about 20%. The two-dimensional PL spectra evolutions during the environment stress test of the three kinds of perovskite films (pristine, with MACl, and with MACl/CsCl) had been displayed as seen in Fig.  3a, b  and c , where the red dotted lines in figures indicate the initial positions of PL peak. From the PL spectra at room temperature (RT), the phenomenon of light-induced defects healing (LDH) can be observed in all films as the PL intensity was increased slowly with the extension of illumination time  [50, 51] . According to the origin of LDH phenomenon, it can be conclude that the LDH phenomenon would appear earlier if the film possesses less defects. When the testing temperature increased to 40 • centigrade (40 • C), PL spectra of perovskite films without and with MACl exhibited the similar form with that at room temperature. But the appearance of the LDH phenomenon of the perovskite film with dual additive (MACl/CsCl) appeared earlier than other two films (from 30 min up to 60 min), which means that the film with dual additive have lower defect density. When it came to 80 • C, the PL intensity of pristine film almost disappeared until the illumination time reached 60 min, which reveals that there exists a great number of recombination centers in the film. The performance of the film with single MACl is better than the pristine one. Notably, for the film with dual additive, the increase of testing temperature had little influence on the PL spectra, which demonstrates that the dual-additive film has less defects and more stable crystal structure. Then the testing temperate was increased to 100 • C, the pristine and single-additive films showed serious phase segregation. The PL peak position of these two films shifted from 1.57 eV to 1.64 eV, which indicates the formation of I-rich phase  [52, 53] . In contrast, the film with dual additive performed very excellent phase stability, whose PL peak position was barely changed after continuous illumination at 100 • C for 100 min. The outstanding stability of the dual-additive film thanks to its high-quality crystals with low strain and low structural disorder certified by the above experimental and theoretical results. Furthermore, we also calculated the activation energy of phase segregation of these films through the Arrhenius equation: ln(k) = -E a /RT + ln(A), where k is the action rate, E a is the activation energy and A is the preexponential constant  [54] . The plot of ln(k) versus inverse temperature exhibited a linear relationship as shown in Fig.  3d-f . The activation energy of phase segregation could be obtained by fitting the slop of the plots. For these perovskite films, the E a value of phase segregation was 40.21 kJ mol -1 (≈0.42 eV), 47.37 kJ mol -1 (≈0.49 eV), and 59.08 kJ mol -1 (≈0.62 eV), which is similar with the migrating activation energy of iodide ion calculated by DFT exhibited in Fig.  2  and Table  S1 . This demonstrates that the phase segregation in perovskite films mainly associates with the migration of iodide ions, which could form the I-rich phase and thus change the optoelectrical properties of perovskite films. The perovskite films with dual additive had been identified to have better crystal quality (lower Urbach energy, lower residual strain and higher phase stability), which means its distinct potential to prepare high-performance devices. Based on this analysis, PSCs without and with dual additive had been constructed with the planar structure of FTO/TiO 2 /perovskite/spiro-MeOTAD/Au as illustrated in the crosssection SEM image shown in Fig.  4a . The fabrication process and the experimental details of these films and devices had been provided at the experimental section in the supporting information. From Fig.  4b , the efficiency violin plots of as-prepared PSCs exhibited that PSCs with dual chloride additive have higher efficiency and better performance reproducibility. The champion efficiencies of PSCs without and with dual chloride additive were demonstrated in Fig.  4c . The J-V curves of these PSCs obtained from the forward and reverse scanning directions were proved in Fig.  S7 . For the PSC with dual chloride additive, the champion efficiency was achieved 22.94% with short-circuit current density (J SC ) of 24.88 mA cm -2 , open-circuit voltage (V OC ) of 1.15 V and fill factor (FF) of 80.19%. Meanwhile, the champion efficiency of PSC based on the pristine perovskite showed much lower value of 20.62% with J SC of 24.39 mA cm -2 , V OC of 1.09 V, FF of 76.95%. The integrated current densities from external quantum efficiency (EQE) being 24.29 and 24.75 mA cm -2 closely agreed with the values of J SC yielded from the J-V curves as shown in Fig.  S8 . The PCE statistial distributions and long-term stability of PSCs with various MACl/CsCl concentrations had also been provided as in Fig.  S9 . From Fig.  S9 , the average efficiencies of PSCs with various additive concentration are 19.52 ± 0.63%, 20.96 ± 0.37%, 20.86 ± 0.36%, 21.62 ± 0.38%, 22.65 ± 0.15%, 21.77 ± 0.35% for the pristine, MACl/ CsCl = 1:1, MACl/CsCl = 1:4, MACl/CsCl = 2:3, MACl/CsCl = 3:2 and MACl/CsCl = 1:4 doped PSCs, respectively. The statistical distribution and average values of PCEs of these devices exhibit similar trend with the change of Urbach energy. Hence, the significant improvement of efficiency of PSCs with dual chloride additive primarily benefited from the higher quality of perovskite films with lower Urbach energy and lower strain, which implies the less defect density of as-fabricated Fig.  3 . Stability of perovskite films without and with chloride additives. The evolution of PL spectra of (a) pristine perovskite films, (b) perovskite films with MACl and (c) perovskite films with dual chloride additive (MACl/CsCl) derived from the environment stress tests under continuous illumination for varying time at gradual increased temperatures in ambient air. (d, e and f) Arrhenius plots of the natural log of the rate constants versus the inverse of temperature corresponding to the pristine perovskite film, with MACl and with dual chloride additive, respectively. The average rate constants of these films extracted from monoexponential fits of Fig.  S6 . The phasesegregation activation energies of these perovskite films were also calculated by the slops of these linearfitted short dot lines. devices. In addition, the space-charge-limited current (SCLC) method was also performed to estimate the trap densities of the perovskite films without and with dual additive. The electron-only structure of FTO/ TiO 2 /perovskite/PCBM/Au was configurated for the SCLC measurement as shown in Fig.  4d  (inset). The trap density of these devices was calculated by the equation N trap = V TFL ⋅2ϵϵ 0 /ed 2 , where ϵ, ϵ 0 , V TFL and d are the dielectric constant, vacuum permittivity, trap-filled limited voltage and thickness of the detected films, respectively  [55, 56] . The V TFL of these devices without and with dual additive were 0.86 V and 0.4 V, and the corresponding values of N trap were 9.1 × 10 15 cm -3 and 4.2 × 10 15 cm -3 . The obvious decrease of N trap indicates that the perovskite film with dual chloride additive have much lower trap density compared with the pristine film. Furthermore, the carrier dynamics in PSCs without and with dual additive was also investigated by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) shown in Fig.  4e  (inset: the equivalent circuit). The Nyquist plots of as-detected PSCs were measured at open-circuit voltage in the frequency range from 10 2 Hz to 10 6 Hz under one sun illumination. The corresponding fitting results were presented in Table  S2 . For the EIS analysis, high frequency component corresponds to the transfer resistance (Rtr), while low frequency component reflects to the recombination resistance (Rrec)  [57, 58] . For the PSC with dual chloride additive, the R tr decreased from 0.56 kΩ to 0.19 kΩ, and the R rec increased from 7.37 kΩ to 11.58 kΩ, indicating that carrier extraction was enhanced, and carrier recombination was restrained compared with the PSC based on the pristine perovskite film. To investigate the stability of PSCs without and with dual additive, the maximum power point (MPP) was applied by tracking the efficiency under one sun illumination in ambient air without any encapsulation. After 1000 s, PCE of PSC with dual chloride additive maintained 93% of initial value, while that of 46% for the PSC with pristine perovskite film. Furthermore, the thermal stability of PSCs without and with chloride additive also had been performed as shown in Fig.  S10 . All devices were aged at 55 • C in dry air (<5% humidity) without encapsulation. The efficiency of PSC with dual chloride additive remains over 80% of its initial value after 500 min aging process, which is much better than the pristine and the single MACl additive PSCs. The long-term operation stability of PSCs with various concentrations of chloride additive also had been characterized as shown in Fig.  S11 . It is obvious that the stability of PSCs with MACl/CsCl additive is much better than that of the pristine-based PSCs as shown in Fig.  S11 . All efficiencies of PSCs with dual chloride additive maintained >85% of their initial values after 240 h operation. These results demonstrates that the dual chloride additive was indeed beneficial to enhance the quality of perovskite films by relaxing residual strain and eliminating defects in the films, which is conducive to obtain high efficiency and stability of PSCs. 
 Conclusion In summary, an efficient strategy to improve the crystal quality of perovskite films had been raised by introducing the dual chloride additive (MACl/CsCl) into the FA-based perovskite precursors. We confirmed that the optimized perovskite film with dual chloride additive possesses lower microstrain and less crystal-distorted induced defects compared with the pristine or the single chloride additive films. DFT calculation revealed that the dual-chloride-additive perovskite film with high-quality crystal is beneficial for inhibiting the migration of iodide ions. By employing the temperature-resolved PL spectra, we directly in situ visualize the enhancement of the phase stability and elimination of defects in perovskite films by the introduction of dual chloride additive. The activation energy related to phase segregation, quantified by Arrhenius equation, was also improved significantly from 40.21 kJ mol -1 to 59.08 kJ mol -1 . Hence, the efficiency of PSCs constituted by the perovskite films with dual chloride additive was obviously improved from 20.62% to 22.94%. Besides, the PSCs with dual chloride additive also demonstrated high operational stability at their MPP under 1 sun illumination for over 1000 s in ambient air. This work provides a facile and reliable method to improve the crystal quality of perovskite films, toward efficient and stable perovskite optoelectronic devices. 
 Credit author statement Mingliang Wang: Writingoriginal draft, Formal analysis, Data curation, Yao Lu: Software, Data curation, Xiaomin Huo: Formal analysis, Visualization, Qingrui Cai: Data curation, Formal analysis, Yao Yao: Formal analysis, Yanqiu Zhang: Data curation, Dandan Song: Software,  Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. Characterization of crystal quality of perovskite films with various chloride additives. (a) Value changes of Urbach energy of perovskite films with various concentrations of MACl and CsCl (inset: Urbach energies of perovskite films with different ratios of MACl/CsCl). (b) and (c) XRD patterns and the amplified peaks of (001) and (002) planes from perovskite films with different chloride additives. (d) Calculated microstrain obtained from XRD patterns. (e) Schematic illustration of the proposed distribution of incorporating MA and Cs cations in FA-based perovskite crystals for releasing the lattice strain induced by the different radius of FA, MA, and Cs cations. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. DFT calculation for investigating the iodide ion migration in perovskite crystals with various components. The transition states corresponding to the maximum energy states of (a) pristine FAPbI 3 , (b) FAPbI 3 containing MA cations, (c) FAPbI 3 with MA and Cs cations. (d) The activation energy of iodide ion migration in those perovskite films calculated using DFT. The Cs, H, C, N, I, Pb and migrated I atoms are depicted by purple, white, light gray, blue, dark gray, yellow and green spheres, respectively. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.) 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. Performance of as-prepared PSCs. (a) Cross-sectional SEM figure of as-prepared PSC. (b) PCE range of PSCs without and with chloride additives. (c) J-V curves for the best-performing PSCs without and with chloride additives. (d) Space charge limited current curves for the electron-only perovskite devices without and with chloride additives. (e) The equivalent circuit model and Nyquist plots of the EIS measurement of PSCs without and with chloride additives. (f) Normalized PCE of PSCs without and with chloride additives measured at the maximum power point with the bias voltage of 0.98 V for 1000 s. 
 
			 Journal of Power Sources 561 (2023) 232753
