Paper #: 9719_1
Title: Ionic liquid gel microspheres as multifunctional bi-component additives for the crystallinity manipulation and defect passivation in all-air-processed perovskite solar cells
Additives have played a critical role in enhancing the efficiency and stability of perovskite solar cells (PSCs). At present, most of the effective additives are composed of one component, with little attention being given to the potential of bi-component. Herein, we report a novel synergistic strategy to construct ionic liquid gel microspheres (ILG-microspheres) as multifunctional bi-component additives by emulsion polymerization. The synergistic effect of polymeric methyl methacrylate and 1-butyl-3-methylimidazole hexafluorophosphate (BMIMPF 6 ) can effectively improve perovskite crystallization quality and passivated GBs. As a result, an all-air-processed champion device with ILG-microsphere exhibits a power conversion efficiency of 22.31 % with a Voc of 1.206 V. Moreover, the long-term stability of optimized PSC remains 86.5 % of initial efficiency after being stored in the air atmosphere for 1500 h, and its thermal stability is also enhanced. This exploitation of ILGmicrosphere as multifunctional bi-component additives provides a promising strategy for the development of all-air-processed high-performance PSCs.
Introduction In recent decades, there has been significant progress in improving the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of perovskite solar cells (PSCs), with the certified value exceeding 26 %  [1] . However, there is still plenty of room for further development to reach the Shockley-Queisser limit. One significant factor that hinders the performance of PSCs is the presence of defects at grain boundaries (GBs), which leads to severe nonradiative recombination and degradation of the perovskite film  [2] [3] [4] [5] . So far, various strategies have been explored to reduce defects, such as interfacial engineering, solvent engineering, and additive engineering  [6] [7] [8] [9] . Among them, additive engineering is a successful approach toward grain manipulation and GBs modulation  [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . Despite efforts, using multifunctional additives with the functions for simultaneous regulation of crystallization and defect kinetics is still limited. Notably, most studies focus on the use only a single class of molecule additives with various functional groups. Unfortunately, the single-composition additives often cannot be fine-tuned to achieve the desired effect. Ionic liquids (ILs) have garnered much attention as additives owing to the advantageous properties of high charge carrier mobility, low toxicity, chemical designability, and stability  [15] . Due to the tailored structure with rich electron density of functional groups, the ILs could interact with the perovskite compositions by hydrogen bonds, ionic and coordinate bonds, and electrostatic interaction  [16, 17] . Based on these interactions, the ILs could not only induce the generation of intermediate phases and control the grain growth of perovskite but also passivate defects like uncoordinated Pb 2+ and iodine vacancies  [16] . Nevertheless, the multifunctional nature of ILs offers potential for developing new ILs-based additives for preparation of efficient and stable PSCs. As another promising additive, polymers have shown exceptional abilities in controlling crystallization process and enhancing stability of perovskite film  [18] . The polymers could serve as a growth template and retardant, effectively influencing the nucleation and slowing down the growth of perovskite crystals, leading to a high-quality perovskite film with significantly enhanced grain size  [19, 20] . Based on the perspectives mentioned above, we were encouraged to take advantage of ILs and polymers to design and prepare bi-component additives to replace the traditional additives. As far as we know, such bi-component additives are rarely reported, so it is a great challenge arising from their poor interfacial compatibility. Herein, ionic liquid gel microspheres (ILG-microspheres) as multifunctional bi-component additives were synthesized, which can control the perovskite crystallization quality and passivate GBs simultaneously. The ILG-microspheres were prepared according to emulsion polymerization reported by Song and co-workers  [21] . The ILG-microsphere can interact with the perovskite precursor colloids and regulate the crystallinity process, yielding a high crystal quality perovskite film with enhanced grain size, as demonstrated in dynamic light scattering (DLS) and grazing incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS). Meanwhile, the uncoordinated Pb 2+ can be passivated by the C=O in polymeric methyl methacrylate and P-F in 1-butyl-3-methylimidazole hexafluorophosphate, reducing the defect density of perovskite film. Benefiting from the improved crystallinity and reduced defect density, the nonradiative recombination in the PSCs is minimized and leads to an enhancement in carrier collection and transport. As a result, the all-airprocessed device with ILG-microsphere exhibits a champion PCE of 22.31 % with a Voc of 1.206 V. Moreover, the long-term stability of optimized PSC remains 86.5 % of initial efficiency after being stored in the air atmosphere for 1500 h. This work provides a simple and affordable approach to delivering high-performance PSCs fabricated in all-air-processed. 
 Results and discussion As shown in Fig.  1a , scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of ILG-microsphere is exhibited. The statistical plot of ILG-microspheres particle size is shown in Fig.  S1a  and b . The average size of ILGmicrosphere is 1.10 μm. The Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) of BMIMPF 6 and ILG-microspheres was performed in Fig.  1b . For the BMIMPF 6 , the characteristic peaks at 814.8 cm -1 and 1167.7 cm -1 could be assigned to stretching vibration of P-F and stretching vibration of imidazole ring. For the ILG-microspheres, the characteristic peaks at 842.3 cm -1 , 1731.4 cm -1 , and 3443.3 cm -1 could be assigned to stretching vibration of P-F, stretching vibration of C=O from polymeric methyl methacrylate (MMA) and stretching vibration of O-H  [21] . The appearance of O-H indicates the hydrogen bond is formed in the ILGmicrosphere, which originates from the physical crosslinking of MMA by carbonyl and hydroxyl groups  [21] . The schematic diagram of the ILG-microsphere structure is shown in Fig.  S2 . Above all, the ILGmicrosphere is successfully synthesized. Then, the ILG-microsphere is added to the perovskite precursor solution as an additive with different concentrations  (10, 20, 30 , and 40 μL mL -1 ). The champion PCE for different concentrations is listed in Fig.  S3 . The concentration of 30 μL mL -1 (target) was chosen for further discussion. The DLS of the ILG-microsphere was measured and shown in Fig.  S4 . The ILG-microsphere exhibits an average size of 1073 nm. To investigate the effect of ILG-microsphere on the perovskite precursor, the DLS was carried out and shown in Fig.  1c  and d . The control solution shows two sizes of colloids at about 2 nm and 200 nm. After introducing the ILG-microsphere, the size was increased to about 3 nm and 600 nm. Meanwhile, there appears a new size at about 5000 nm. The increased size of colloids suggests that the ILG-microsphere could interact with the colloids in the precursor solution. According to the classic nucleation theory, nucleation can be explained by the Gibbs free energy and categorized as heterogeneous or homogeneous  [21, 22] . The main crystal growth mechanism for perovskite film seems to be a homogeneous process  [22] . The free energy barrier for the nucleation can be decreased by introducing additives to form the nuclei in perovskite solution  [23, 24] . For the target perovskite solution, the larger colloids induced by the ILG-microsphere could act as nuclei and reduce the free energy barrier. As a result, the perovskite film with a larger grain size and reduced defect density should be obtained. To confirm our hypothesis, the morphology of perovskite film was measured by SEM. As presented in Fig.  2a  and 2b , the control and target films are dense and without holes. The average grain size for the control film is 615.93 nm, while the target film shows an average grain size of 880.33 nm (Fig.  S5 ). Different from the control film with a uniform grain size distribution, the target film exhibits two distributions at about 700 nm and 1200 nm. The different distribution could contribute to the larger colloid in precursor induced by ILG-microsphere, which agrees with the discussion in DLS. The target film with a larger grain size exhibits fewer GBs. According to the previous works, the GBs are the main Fig.  1 . A) the sem image and b) ftir spectra for the ilg-microsphere. the dls spectra of c) control and d) target perovskite precursor solutions. route for ion migration  [25, 26] . Therefore, the target film with larger grain size and less GBs could lead to better performance and stability. Meanwhile, the larger grain indicates that the ILG-microsphere could regulate the crystal growth of perovskite by enlarging the precursor colloid size. The cross-section SEM images for control and target PSCs are shown in Fig.  S6 . The target perovskite film exhibits a larger grain size than control film. Besides, the roughness of perovskite film is important for the deposition of the next layer. The atomic force microscopy (AFM) is conducted on the control and target perovskite film. As shown in Fig.  S7 , the root-mean-square of target film is 26.1 nm, which is smaller than the control film (29.7 nm). The smoother perovskite film may lead to closer contact and better carrier transport. Then the X-ray diffraction (XRD) was measured to investigate the effect of ILGmicrosphere on the crystallinity of perovskite film. As shown in Fig.  S8 , the diffraction peaks at 14.0 • and 24.5 • are belong to the (0 0 1) and (1 1 1) facets of perovskite. After introducing the ILG-microsphere, no new diffraction peaks appear and the position of peaks is not shifted, indicating that ILG-microsphere doesn't penetrate the perovskite lattice. The intensity of diffraction peak at 14.0 • for target film is significantly enhanced compared with control film, which implies that the crystal quality is improved by the ILG-microsphere. In order to further investigate the crystal quality of perovskite film, we conducted the GIWAXS and presented in Fig.  2c  and d . The intensity of (0 0 1) facet (q = 10 nm -1 ) is significantly increased for the target film, demonstrating that ILG-microsphere could regulate and improve the crystal quality of perovskite film. Above all, the addition of ILG-microsphere significantly enhances the crystalline quality of perovskite film. To explain the effect of ILG-microsphere on the formation of perovskite film clearly, the schematic is presented in Fig.  3 . The control perovskite precursor solution with small colloids needs more energy to overcome energy barriers to form nuclei, which leads to a perovskite film with small grain size and more defect density. In the target solution, the larger colloids with ILG-microsphere could act as the nuclei and reduce the energy barriers, leading to a perovskite film with larger grain size, less GBs, and reduced defect density. In addition, the functional group of C=O and P-F in the ILGmicrosphere has been reported which could passivate defects like uncoordinated Pb 2+ in perovskite film  [12, 27, 28] . We calculated the electrostatic potential (ESP) of methyl methacrylate (MMA) to visualize the electron density distribution. As shown in Fig.  4a , the electron-rich region is mainly distributed on the C=O and provides high electron density, which could interact with the uncoordinated Pb 2+ . Then, the Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was conducted. As shown in Fig.  S9 , two new characteristic peaks at 829.7 cm -1 and 1725.5 cm -1 are assigned to the groups of C=O and P-F. Compared with the FTIR results of ILG-microsphere, the location of two peaks is shifted, which suggests the interaction between perovskite film and ILGmicrosphere. To further investigate the passivation effect, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out and shown in Fig.  4b . The peaks appearing at 143.27 eV and 138.42 eV are belonged to the Pb 4f 5/2 and 4f 7/2 . The peaks are shifted to 142.85 eV and 138.00 eV after adding the ILG-microsphere, suggesting that the chemical environment of Pb is changed. These results suggest that the ILG-microsphere could interact with the uncoordinated Pb 2+ or Pb cluster by C=O and P-F. Consequently, the ILG-microsphere could interact with the perovskite film and passivate the defects, resulting in stable and efficient PSCs. In order to further verify the reduction of defect density and better crystallinity of perovskite film, the photoluminescence (PL) is measured first. As shown in Fig.  S10 , the target film exhibits a higher intensity than control film and no shift for the peak, revealing a better crystallinity and less nonradiative recombination losses  [29] . Then we conducted the time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) of perovskite film deposited on the glass. The TRPL decay and fitting curve are presented in Fig.  4c , and the fitting parameters are listed in Table  S1 . The control film exhibits an average lifetime of 273.52 ns, while the target film is 336.96 ns. The longer lifetime film reveals that there is a reduced defect density in target film. The space charge limited current (SCLC) is carried out to investigate the defect density of different perovskite films. In Fig.  4d , the V TFL for control film is 0.467 V, while the target film is 0.360 V. According to the equation (  1 ) in supporting information, the N trap for the target film (1.166 × 10 -16 cm -3 ) is smaller than the control film (1.513 × 10 -16 cm -3 ), indicating the defect density is reduced. These results agree with the discussion from SEM image and XRD pattern, indicating that ILG-microsphere can effectively regulate the crystal growth of perovskite and lead to a better crystallinity of perovskite film. We fabricated the PSCs in the open air and the details were listed in the Experimental Section in supporting information. The PSCs consist of FTO/SnO 2 /Perovskite/Sprio-OMeTAD/Au. As shown in Fig.  5a , the current-voltage (J-V) curve is obtained and listed in Table  S2 . The target device exhibited a champion PCE of 22.31 % with a Voc of 1.206 V, FF of 82.32, and Jsc of 22.47 mA/cm 2 , which is better than the control device with a champion PCE of 20.51 % with a Voc of 1.182 V, FF of 81.45, and a Jsc of 21.30 mA/cm 2 . The enhanced PCE could be attributed to the improved crystal quality of perovskite film by ILG-microsphere. The incident photo-to-electron conversion efficiency (IPCE) of control and target device are measured and shown in the Fig.  5b . The integrated Jsc for control device and target device are 21.20 mA/cm 2 and 22.16 mA/ cm 2 , which is close to the Jsc derived from the J-V curve. the steady-state output of control and target devices are carried out for 200 s and plotted in Fig.  5c . The control device delivers a PCE of 18.89 % while the target device delivers a PCE of 20.15 %. The target device delivers better operating stability than control device. Moreover, the reproducibility was investigated by measuring 20 devices as shown in Fig.  5d  and Table  S3 . The average PCE of optimized devices is 21.08 ± 0.74 %, which is significantly higher than the control devices of 19.34 ± 0.77 %. Then, we investigated the nonradiative recombination and carrier transfer in the whole device. The transient photovoltage (TPV) is measured and plotted in Fig.  6a  to further investigate the recombination better carrier extraction efficiency for the target device  [30, 31] . The Mott-Schottky of the responding devices was conducted and shown in Fig.  6c . The sharper slope of the target device suggests that the carrier extraction efficiency. In the Mott-Schottky curve, the intercept of the curve on the x-axis can be assigned to the built-in potential (Vbi)  [32, 33] . Compared with the control device, the Vbi for target device is increased from (0.99 V) to (1.03 V). The increased Vbi could lead to an effective separation of the photo-generated carrier and improve the Voc in the PSCs. In the Fig.  S11  we display the relationship between the Voc and light intensity to further investigate the trap-assisted recombination. According to the equation (2) in supporting information, the slope of target device (2.28 kT/q) is smaller than the control device (2.65 kT/ q). The reduced slope indicates the enhanced ability of carrier extraction and the suppressed trap-assisted recombination. As presented in Fig.  6d , the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was surveyed. The fitting parameters are summarized in Table  S4  in supporting information. The transfer resistance (Rct) of the target device (297.4 Ω) is reduced compared with the control device (377.4 Ω). The smaller Rct indicates fewer defects in the perovskite film, leading to better carrier extraction and less recombination in the optimized device. Taken together, PSCs with ILG-microsphere exhibit enhanced charger transport and suppressed trap-assisted recombination, which could be the reason for the improvement in efficiency. Finally, we investigated the effect of ILG-microsphere on the stability of perovskite film and PSCs. The water contact angle of perovskite film was conducted and shown in Fig.  7a . The target film exhibits a larger angle (83 • ) than the control film (73 • ), which can be attributed to the perovskite film with less GBs, indicating that the moisture penetration can be more effectively hindered. Then the degradation of perovskite film under light is surveyed. The perovskite film was placed in the ethyl acetate solution under the continuous AM 1.5G light illumination. As shown in Fig.  7b , the peaks in UV-Vis spectra of ethyl acetate solution at about 290 nm and 360 nm are assigned to the I 3 -. Compared with the control film, the target film exhibited a lower intensity after 2 h, indicating that less I 3 -escaped from the perovskite film and the light stability was improved. The less I 3 -could be attributed to the enhanced crystallinity and less GBs in perovskite film. The control and target devices were stored in the atmosphere (≈25℃, RH = 20 ± 5 %). As displayed in Fig.  7c , the control device remains 51 % of the initial PCE, while the target device still maintains 86.5 % after 1500 h. The thermal stability of PSCs was carried out by storing them at 85℃ in the ambient air. As plotted in Fig.  7d , after being stored for 75 h, the control device maintains 67.7 % of initial efficiency, while the target device exhibits 88.3 % of initial efficiency. According to the reported works, the heating may accelerate ion migration via the GBs and lead to perovskite degradation [  13, 34, 35] . Hence, the enhanced thermal stability may originate from the perovskite film with less GBs. 
 Conclusion In summary, we introduced the ILG-microsphere as an additive to regulate the crystal quality and passivate the defects in perovskite film.  The ILG-microsphere is introduced into the perovskite precursor to interact with colloids and act as nucleation centers. After adding the ILGmicrosphere, a new colloid size at about 5000 nm is formed, resulting in better crystallinity of perovskite film with larger grain size and reduced GBs. Meanwhile, the C=O and P-F in ILG-microsphere could interact with the uncoordinated Pb 2+ . As a result, the nonradiative recombination in the PSCs is reduced, leading to an enhancement in the carrier transfer and collection. Finally, the optimized PSCs deliver a champion PCE of 22.31 % with a Voc of 1.206 V, FF of 82.32, and Jsc of 22.47 mA/ cm 2 . Moreover, the PSCs with ILG-microsphere remain 86.5 % of initial efficiency after being stored in the air atmosphere for 1500 h. The thermal stability of optimized device is also improved when stored at 85 • C. We believe this work provides an effective and facile way to fabricate high crystal quality perovskite film in the open air. Fig. 2 .Fig. 3 . 23 Fig. 2. The SEM image for a) control and b) target perovskite film. The GIWAXS pattern of c) control and d) target perovskite film. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. a) The ESP of MMA. b) XPS spectra for control and target perovskite film. c) The TRPL spectra for perovskite film deposited on glass. d) The SCLC measurement of the corresponding for electron-only devices with a structure of FTO/SnO 2 /perovskite/PCBM/Au. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. a) The J-V curve for the control and target device. b) The IPCE curve for control and target PSCs. c) The SPO for corresponding devices. d) The PCE distribution of corresponding devices. 
 Fig. 6 . 6 Fig. 6. a) The TPC, b) TPV, c) Mott-Schottky plots, and d) Nyquist plots for corresponding devices. 
 Fig. 7 . 7 Fig. 7. a) The water contact angle and b) UV-Vis spectra of solvent for the corresponding perovskite film. c) The long-term darkness stability and d) thermal stability for control and target PSCs.
