Paper #: 10544_1
Title: PASCAL: the perovskite automated spin coat assembly line accelerates composition screening in triple-halide perovskite alloys †
The Perovskite Automated Spin Coat Assembly Line -PASCALis introduced as a materials acceleration platform for the deposition and characterization of spin-coated thin films, with specific application to halide perovskites. We first demonstrate improved consistency of perovskite film fabrication by controlling process parameters, the influence of which is uniquely exposed under the automated experimental framework. Next, we report on an automated campaign of composition engineering to improve the durability of perovskite absorbers for tandem solar cell applications. We screen compositions spanning the triple-cation, triple-halide composition space, MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 . Data-driven clustering identifies four characteristic behaviors within this space regarding figures of merit for durability and open-circuit voltage, with data from each sample acquired automatically in PASCAL characterization line. Finally, a film composition durable to light and elevated temperature exposure is identified via a regression model trained on the high-throughput dataset. The approach, hardware, and data detailed herein highlight automated platforms as an opportunity to accelerate the identification and discovery of novel thin film materials and demonstrates the efficacy of PASCAL specifically for automation of solution-processed optoelectronic thin film research.
Introduction The compositional exibility of halide perovskites presents both opportunity for discovery of tailored materials for myriad optoelectronic applications and risk of superuous efforts. Whether ne-tuning composition within known spaces, or searching in novel spaces (e.g., double perovskites,  [1] [2] [3] [4]  pseudocations/pseudohalides,  [5] [6] [7] [8] [9]  new additives, 10 chalcogenides 11 ), the perovskite subeld and the optoelectronics community more broadly faces a number of hurdles in screening efforts. First is the enormity of design space. In the case of halide perovskites, nearly half  12, 13  of the periodic table can plausibly be incorporated into the structure, making an exhaustive search of the space intractable. Second is the sensitivity of the functional properties of optoelectronic materials to defects.  14  In the particular case of halide perovskites, irreproducibility of the fabrication is also a substantial concern, owing in part to low (or even metastable  15  ) formation energies and correspondingly a highly kinetically-driven synthesis process (e.g., spin coating with an antisolvent). These factors exacerbate the challenge in academic research and discovery efforts to achieve sample-tosample, batch-to-batch, and interlaboratory experimental comparisons. In halide perovskites, even for the same operator,  16  practices may deviate in seemingly small ways over time, e.g. the rate  17  or timing  18  of antisolvent dispensing during spin coating, leading to large changes in outcomes. Finally, the active material is only one component of the complete photovoltaic cell, and covariances between active material composition, interface passivation strategies, charge transport layers, and the process parameters associated with each step expand the scale of what is ideally a global optimization problem. These risks inherent to bold compositional searches can be ameliorated by the use of automation.  19  Robotic automation of halide perovskite experiments is growing in prevalence, improving experimental throughput and process precision.  12, [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29]  Such automation has been commonplace in drug discovery, facilitated by liquid handling hardware to execute solution-based experiments. Automation of thin lm experiments is somewhat more difficult because solid samples require more advanced hardware to manipulate than liquids. Nevertheless, the signicant benets of materials automation  12, [30] [31] [32] [33]  have inspired pioneering efforts to automate spin coating platforms for thin lm halide perovskite research.  20, [34] [35] [36] [37] [38]  Furthermore, precision automation enables acceleration of materials discovery with machine learning by reducing noise that can slow learning. Already, the community has proven benets of black-box models and physics informed models to facilitate materials screening  [39] [40] [41]  and performance prediction.  [42] [43] [44]  Halide perovskites hold particular promise for use in tandem solar cells, which may lower overall costs of solar electricity via a higher power conversion efficiency. Using a wide bandgap perovskite on silicon, researchers have achieved a power conversion efficiency of 33.9%,  45  the record for any nonconcentrator 2-terminal tandem solar cell.  46  Perovskites are well positioned as candidates for a tandems because of their potential to have low production costs, tunable bandgaps, and sharp optical absorption edges.  [47] [48] [49]  For perovskites to serve as a suitable two-terminal top-cell tandem partner with silicon, the bandgap must be tuned above 1.6 eV to allow for current matching between the top and bottom cell. Prior investigations  50, 51  have proved this challenging to achieve without sacricing durability. It is challenging to maintain a microscopically single phase alloy perovskite when the bromine fraction is beyond 15-25% (depending on the A-site composition).  52  At these wider bandgaps these perovskites typically suffer from phase segregation, leading to large open circuit voltage (V OC ) decits and rapid degradation of device performance.  53  Thus, the community has sought a path to improved phase stability by tuning the perovskite primarily via alloying.  [54] [55] [56] [57] [58] [59] [60]  Today, wide bandgap perovskites have made great strides in achieving improved stability, but still face phase instability when exposed to operational temperatures, illumination, and electrical biases.  56, [61] [62] [63] [64]  In this work, we report a robotic platform for spin coating and characterizing optoelectronic thin lms. With a rst focus on perovskites, we call the platform the Perovskite Automated Spin Coat Assembly Line (PASCAL). PASCAL automates fabrication of thin lms by the standard spin coat procedures employed in manual processes, albeit with precision, control, and record keeping surpassing that of human operators. PASCAL additionally passes samples through a "characterization line", generating a standard dataset of imaging (darkeld, brighteld, and photoluminescence intensity) and spectroscopy (transmittance and photoluminescence) for each sample. With PASCAL, we fabricate and measure samples at a rate of up to 430 depositions or measurements per day. Using PASCAL, we rst show reproducibility studies uncovering latent variables typically uncontrolled in the perovskite fabrication process and then, with controlled conditions, execute experimental screening and device prototyping of wide bandgap perovskite compositions. Aer validating reproducibility, as a proof of concept, we fabricate and test lms of 58 unique compositions in the MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 space with 4 repeats each in under 48 cumulative hours, evaluating the lms on bandgap, photoluminescence (PL), and PL stability against intense illumination and thermal stress to establish the trade-offs made between these properties across the compositional space. From these results, we divide the compositional space into four distinct behavior regions using spectral clustering and identify a relatively superior composition in its spectral stability of PL emission through Gaussian process regression. Overall, we highlight the effectiveness of the robotic platform to design and validate absorber compositions for perovskites specically and, more generally, thin lms where functional properties or optima can be guided by optical characterization.   1 ). All solutions were prepared at 1.2 M in a 3 : 1 volume ratio of DMF : DMSO using MAI (GreatCell), FAI (GreatCell), CsI (Sigma, 99.999%), PbI 2 (Sigma, 99.999%), PbBr 2 (Sigma, 99.999%), and PbCl 2 (Sigma, 99.999%). To produce individual compositions in the screening experiments, "endpoint" solutions were mixed in a polypropylene 96-well plate by an Opentrons OT2 liquid handler to achieve the target compositions for the screening experiments. For the target composition identied by the ML model and used in Section 4.3, the MA 0.035 FA 0.78 Cs 0.185 Pb(I 0.863 Br 0.132 -Cl 0.005 ) 3 solution was made directly by hand. All perovskite solutions contained 9% excess PbI 2 . Solutions were vortexed until no solids were visible (15-20 min), heated to 85 °C for 10 min, allowed to cool down to room temperature, then ltered through a 0.20 mm lter. All steps were performed within a nitrogen-lled glovebox (#1 ppm O 2 and H 2 O). 
 Film fabrication 1 × 1 cm glass slides were cleaned via sequential sonication steps each with a duration of 15 min in the following order: 5 v/ v% Hellmanax (Sigma) in DI water, DI water, acetone, ethanol, and isopropyl alcohol. Aer drying with a ltered compressed dry air gun, the samples were treated by UV-ozone for 20 min under an O 2 ow of 5 scfm. Upon completion, the substrates were immediately moved into the glovebox containing the robotic platform for lm deposition. Films were fabricated by PASCAL using spincoating inside a glovebox with constant N 2 purge. Specically, 40 mL of absorber solution were dispensed statically, followed by spinning at 3000 rpm for 50 s. 80 mL of methyl acetate were dispensed from 2 mm above the spinning substrate at a rate of 100 mL s -1 with 22 s remaining in the 3000 rpm spin step. Aer the spin completes, the sample is immediately moved to a hotplate and annealed at 100 °C for 30 min by the gantry robot arm, and is nally moved to an aluminum-oored sample storage tray to cool to room temperature. 
 Robot precision Robot precision was characterized by analysis of real time records of processing steps from a typical 45-sample experiment. Spincoater RPM, dispense timing, and anneal duration are all recorded during normal PASCAL operation. The custom spincoater achieved an absolute variation over time within 1% (Fig.  S1a † ). The liquid handler achieved an antisolvent drop timing standard deviation of 18 ms (Fig.  S1b † ). The gantrygripper module within PASCAL achieves an annealing duration standard deviation of 10 ms (Fig.  S1c † ). 
 Custom spincoater A custom spincoater was built using a hollow-sha brushless 1700 kV motor (iFlight) with a rotary encoder (ODrive Robotics) for precise position control. Detailed build instructions are available online at  https://github.com/fenning-research-group/ PASCAL . 
 Photoluminescence Photoluminescence (PL) spectra are acquired using a 0.9 W 632 nm laser (ThorLabs) as an excitation source. Spectra are collected through a 200 mm slit grating 8 nm resolution spectrometer (StellarNet) and t by a single Gaussian (cts vs. eV) to extract PL peak intensity, energy, and full-width half-max. All PL characterization is performed at least 3 min aer the glass slide has moved onto an aluminum tray to allow for cooling aer annealing. Once cooled, the sample is transferred to a linear stage, which carries the sample through a series of measurement stations. 
 Photostability Series of photoluminescence spectra are acquired at 2 s intervals using a focused 0.9 W 450 nm laser (ThorLabs) as an excitation source for a 2 min duration. The focused power is equivalent to about 4 suns intensity. Individual spectra are tted by a single Gaussian (cts vs. eV) to extract PL peak intensity, energy, and full-width half-max, and these extracted parameters are compared over time to evaluate lm stability. 
 Thermal stability A subset of the lms are measured by PL spectroscopy before and aer heating at 85 °C for 4.5 h on a hotplate in a nitrogen glovebox. Films are moved to the aluminum storage tray for at least 5 min before each measurement to cool to room temperature. 
 Scanning electron microscopy SEM (Apreo) measurement was taken using an in-lens detector at an accelerating current of 0.1 nA and 5 kV. 2.9 X-ray-diffraction XRD (Anton Paar) was conducted in a parallel beam scanning mode at an incident angle of 10°u. 
 Photoluminescence quantum yield 1 sun equivalent intensity photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) measurements were carried out on a homebuilt setup consisting of 532 nm laser for excitation, using lock in detection at 993 Hz and a photodetector signal. PLQY was calculated using the method developed by de Mello et al.,  65  with the responsivity of the Si photodetector accounted for using a photoluminescence spectrum of each sample and the responsivity of the detector. To calculate the implied voltage, the following relationship was used, adapted from de Mello et al.: 65 iV oc = V lim + kT ln(PLQY) (1) where iV oc is the 1-sun implied voltage, V lim is the detailed balance limited voltage at 1-sun, and kT is the thermal voltage at room temperature. The detailed balance limit voltage was calculated using the optical bandgap estimated from transmission. Changes in implied voltages were calculated using the relative change in the uncalibrated PL intensity in PASCL spectroscopy module. 
 K-means spectral clustering Scalarized features were fed into sklearn's KMC function  66  with a manually set cluster count of 4 and radial basis function kernel. See data availability statement for further details. 
 Gaussian process regression The Euclidean distance from zero peak shi on axes of both thermal degradation and photodegradation was dened as a gure of merit for PL energy stability. A Gaussian process regression was t on this metric and the composition within the triple-halide space predicted to have the least shi was we extracted. The model utilized a single objective GP from Botorch.  67  See data availability statement for further details. 
 PASCAL overview PASCAL can perform most steps of the typical perovskite thin lm fabrication process (Fig.  1a ), including liquid handling, spin coating, annealing, and thin lm characterizations such as imaging and spectroscopy. Pioneering efforts in material acceleration platforms have oen generated proxy samples in model architectures that are then used to drive experiments in standard architectures.  [25] [26] [27]  PASCAL can fabricate standard thin lms and sub-cells for direct investigation e.g. of perovskite materials and their interfaces with transport layers for direct integration into solar cells. To do so, the system can perform arbitrary sequences of operations, including the deposition of multiple thin lm layers with intervening annealing and characterization steps. PASCAL (Fig.  1b ) consists of six primary components: a liquid handler (Opentrons OT2) to mix and dispense solutions, a custom spin coater, an array of three hotplates to anneal samples and perform thermal degradation tests, a characterization train to measure optical spectra and take images of each sample, storage trays to hold substrates, and a rectilinear gantry and gripper to transfer samples between stations. The spincoater was custom built to t within one of the deck slots of the liquid handler, such that the liquid handler can dispense directly onto it.  68, 69  All components are housed inside a nitrogen glovebox (#1 ppm O 2 and H 2 O) to enable work on air-sensitive materials such as perovskites, which are sensitive to both oxygen and humidity exposure.  61  The overall system is controlled from one computer using a custom Python library. This library is publicly available,  69  but is heavily tailored to PASCAL. Some of the more generalizable code, specically those for planning solution mixing and job scheduling for parallel job execution, are available as standalone Python packages.  70, 71  A typical compositional screening experiment begins with the interpolation of stock solutions into target solutions and mixed in a 96-well plate by the liquid handler. Next, a substrate is transferred to the spincoater chuck by the robot arm. The spincoater incorporates an encoder such that it can be rotated to a known position, which is necessary for the parallel-plate gripper to pick up the square sample substrates. During spincoating, PASCAL affords greater precision and recording of this critical step than is possible with human operation. The dispense position, height, and rate are precisely controlled, and the dispense timing is repeatable with a standard deviation of 18 ms (Fig.  S1b † ). Aer spin coating, the sample is transferred to one of three hot plates (depending on the set temperature), annealed, and then transferred to a storage tray to cool to room temperature prior to characterization. PASCAL characterization line consists of cameras, LED, and laser excitation sources, a halogen lamp, and a spectrometer to allow for a standard-set of images (brighteld, darkeld, PL) and spectroscopy (PL and transmission) measurements (Fig.  1c-f ). Additionally, the characterization line has a linear stage to carry one sample between the various stations, allowing sample transfers between stations during the characterization step (which can take many minutes) to be decoupled from transfers between the fabrication steps (which can occur every z10 s when operating at maximum capacity). PASCAL can work on many samples in parallel, with typical experiments requiring about 3.5 h for fabrication and characterization of 45 sub-cell samples (2 thin lm depositions) in parallel processing mode or 10 h in sequential processing mode (example job schedule in Fig.  2a  and b ). To complete devices, aer PASCAL completes all tasks, sub-cells (e.g., Glass/ITO/MeO-2PACz/perovskite) are manually transferred to a glovebox-attached evaporation chamber for physical vapor deposition of contact layers to complete the device and nally to an automated illuminated current-voltage testing platform in the glovebox for device measurement without any air exposure.  72   
 Results and discussion With an introduction to the PASCAL platform complete, the remainder of this work presents the application of PASCAL to perovskite lm fabrication toward development of a photo-and thermally-stable perovskite composition relevant to perovskite on silicon tandem solar cells. We present results on: (1) identifying and controlling hidden variables in perovskite processing and verifying PASCAL repeatability in sub-cell and cell fabrication, (2) exploiting PASCAL to screen the complex triplecation, triple-halide composition space for wide-bandgap solar absorbers, applying machine learning to assist discovery of robust compositions and (3) prototyping devices using durable compositions identied to have a stable PL emission energy under thermal and illuminated accelerated test conditions. 
 Addressing reproducibility 4.1.1 Uncovering hidden variables. Leveraging PASCAL mixing and timing repeatability we identied glovebox solvent partial pressure as having a negative effect on the repeatability of PL peak energy. PASCAL can operate all deposition and characterization tasks in parallel to optimize run time (Fig.  2a ). However, parallel deposition of a hole transport layer (HTL, MeO-2PACz) in ethanol and perovskite in 3DMF : 1DMSO with MeOAc anti-solvent reveals a wide distribution in the PL emission energy of the resulting thin lms (Fig.  2c batches A-B ). In comparison, we use serial processing of each layer to separate the solvent atmospheres (Fig.  2b ), which involves an isolated 15 min N 2 purge of the glovebox and removal of prior processing materials/waste prior to subsequent deposition or characterization to decrease the residual partial pressure of solvent vapors. This change resulted in a signicant drop in the coef-cient of variation (CV) of the PL peak energy from 3.92% for batches A-B, which were parallel processed, to 0.08% for batches 1-5, which were serial processed. In the device JV curves (Fig.  3b ), average FF of all 5 batches were 75.1 ± 2.7%. Batch-wise median PCE (Fig.  3c ) uctuates, with the combined distribution having a median PCE of 15.0% and IQR of 1.4%. The champion device achieved 17% PCE. Loss analysis by PLQY reveals a V oc decit of z400 mV, with a combined z200 mV lost at the selective contacts in these prototype devices (Fig.  S3 † ). This analysis identies promise for improved performance with a dedicated passivation strategy and improved band alignment.  61  Regarding reproducibility, the distribution of device open voltage, shown in Fig.  3d , shows an interquartile range of about 50 mV (32.2 mV standard deviation). Interestingly, as seen in Fig.  3d , the variation in the implied open circuit voltage for the sub-cell fabrication wholly automated by PASCAL was signicantly less, as quantied by the change in PL intensity of the lms within the batches. The interquartile range for the populations of sub-cell DiV oc is 16.2 mV with a standard deviation of 12.7 mV. The coefficient of variation in the implied V oc is only z1.1%. Moving to the nished device involves increasing architectural complexity, and in the end the coefficient of variation of cell voltages increases, but remains relatively small at #3.2%. The implementation of PASCAL has demonstrated a signicant reduction in process variability, primarily attributable to the elimination of operator bias and errors in critical stages such as anti-solvent timing.  16  The robot precision in handling sensitive processes improves consistency, a factor oen compromised in manual operations. This is most evident in PASCAL serial processing mode where a tight batch-to-batch variation in PL peak energy and intensity was achieved in the complex triple-cation, triple-halide perovskite synthesis. We note that PASCAL begins operation with manually prepared ink stocks, where care must be taken lest error associated with precursor mass (here ±0.1 mg) and solution volume (here ±0.1 mL) propagate across batches. 4.1.3 Outlook on reproducibility. The standardized data set generated by PASCAL facilitates a nuanced batch-to-batch comparison, enabling identication of subtler trends and anomalies. For instance, variations linked different solvent partial pressure incompatibilities, and steps external to PASCAL, like the evaporation of contacts, are now more readily identiable. While PASCAL fabricated sub-cells show tight distributions, the magnitude of variation in the device V oc was greater than in the sub-cell iV oc . The HTL/perovskite are just 2 layers of the full device architecture, and subsequent deposition now take place outside of PASCAL tight control. Future work will investigate irreproducibility in sample transfer and PVD deposition of contact layers. 
 Wide bandgap screening Having established expected variance for a single composition, we screened a subset of the vast compositional perovskite landscape (MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 ) fabricating 58 (details in methods) unique compositions to nd 4 distinct behavior regions based on features of high importance to photovoltaic performance (i.e., initial PL spectrum and intensity, PL spectral changes upon illumination, PL spectral changes upon elevated temperature exposure). Thin lm data for each feature is provided in the SI (Fig.  S4 -S9 †) and their results are discussed below. The bandgaps of thin lms across the compositional screening range from 1.56 eV to 1.70 eV (Fig.  S4 † ), covering the spread of both spectrally ideal and empirically tested ideal bandgaps of absorbers atop silicon in tandem devices.  50, 51, 73  The dominant trends in bandgap arise, as expected from variations in the halide composition at the X-site.  74, 75  Most evident is the widening bandgap with increasing Br fraction (moving towards the top corner of the ternary diagrams). This contrasts with the non-monotonic relationship between Cl content (moving towards the bottom right corner), which initially widens until Cl comprises z7% of the halide content, aer which the bandgap redshis. This result is consistent with previous reports of the limited Cl solubility in the perovskite lattice in similar composition spaces, where, past a certain percentage, Cl addition causes compositional segregation into lower and higher Clcontaining regions and a net redshi in emission.  56  This redshi is caused by the formation of iodine-rich phases, which act as sinks for carriers.  52, [76] [77] [78]  Interestingly, we observe this redshi in all 10% Cl compositions except those with the highest Br content (10% Br) regardless of A-site composition, suggesting that the solubility limit of Cl in this system is modestly increased by Br addition. The composition of the Asite also affects the material bandgap. As we increase MA content (and accordingly decrease Cs content), the bandgap narrows slightly likely due to octahedral tilt as the effective Asite radius is manipulated.  58  The photoluminescence (PL) intensity of lms across the compositional space is shown in Fig.  S5 . † PL intensity is logarithmically proportional to the open-circuit voltage expected from a photovoltaic cell,  79, 80  and we can use PL data as a gure of merit to identify promising absorbers for future cell development. Broadly, compositions with $10% Br content display relatively lower PL intensity, and compositions with $7% Cl display anomalously high PL intensity indicative of phase splitting.  56  We test the photostability of our thin lms by recording changes in PL spectra over 2 min of constant irradiation by a blue laser (405 nm), with power equivalent to z4 sun. From these spectra, we extract the changes in both PL peak energy and intensity to evaluate a composition photostability (Fig.  S6  and S7 †). Films across the composition space were seen to either "photodarken" (PL intensity decreases) or "photobrighten" (increases), with nal PL intensities ranging from 10% to 200% of the initial intensity (Fig.  S5 † ). We refer to this metric as the photointensity change. Broadly, compositions with $14% Br mostly lose emission intensity under photoexposure. All but one photobrightening composition contain Cl, with the largest increases in emission intensity occurring in compositions with $5% Cl. Films were seen to either blueshi or redshi in emission energy under photoexposure, with all lms shiing by less than 25 meV in either direction (Fig.  S7 † ). Broadly, we observe that compositions with higher Cl fractions tend to redshi more aer photoexposure. We test the thermal stability of our thin lms by recording changes in PL spectra before and aer exposure to 85 °C in a nitrogen environment and observe that PL intensity reduces for nearly all lms (Fig.  S8 † ). At 0% and 5% MA content, the lms with the highest Br fractions showed the most loss of PL intensity, dropping by up to three orders of magnitude (Fig.  S8 † ). At 10% MA content, however, there is no clear relationship between halide composition and intensity loss. Across all halide compositions, higher MA content leads to greater losses in PL intensity aer thermal degradation. PL emission energy is seen to either redshi or blueshi aer thermal testing, with all lms shiing by less than 40 meV in either direction (Fig.  S9 † ). Most lms blueshied, with those with 5% or higher Cl loading show the largest blueshi up to 40 meV aer testing. Films with over 10% Br and under 5% Cl slightly redshied (up to 7 meV aer 4.5 h). Within this same space, MA content seems to increase the magnitude of redshi aer exposure to 85 °C. Notably, the screening study identied compositions that spanned red-to blueshis upon photo-and thermal-stability testing. This span raises the possibility that within this space lies compositions that may show no shi. 4.2.1 Learning from the screening data. We reduce the dimensionality in the screening data by using k-means spectral clustering (KMC)  66  to segment perovskite compositions into four regions of distinct behavior, allowing for effective comparison across multiple dimensions. Specically, we select 5 screening metrics which capture the stability and potential performance of the absorbers: thermal stability (by changes in PL emission energy and intensity, with no change desired), photostability (by changes in PL emission energy and intensity, with no change desired), and the initial PL intensity (brighter is better). KMC performs clustering on the combined latent space of these 5 dimensions (Fig.  4a ), with the number of clusters having been selected by trial-and-errorfewer than four clusters grouped disparate compositions together, while greater than four clusters only divided clusters in spurious ways that were not meaningful in our context of absorber screening. Note that the composition was not used for clustering, and that KMC does not require clusters to be contiguous in the compositional space. Aer the 4 unique clusters were generated, we manually labeled their distinct performance based on each cluster average features (Table  S1  †) and provide the following labels: (1) "most stable PL energy", (2) "PL blueshi", (3) "PL blueshi & brighten", and (  4 ) "brightest PL". The "most stable PL energy" cluster is particularly interesting for photovoltaic development. In inverting the latent space (Fig.  4b  and d ), we see that the "most stable PL energy" has PL peak shis that is uniquely distinguishable from rest of the clusters. Similarly, the "brightest PL" cluster is clearly distinguishable on the PL intensity axis. These clusters are mapped back to the compositional space in Fig.  4e-g . In 0% MA compositions below 7% Cl (Fig.  4e ), the space separates into 3 distinct behaviors (blue, red, purple) that suggest there may be compositional boundaries where targeted features can be achieved. The MA content on the absorber A-site plays a signicant role in shiing the boundaries of these functional behaviors (Fig.  4e-g ). Most notably, the stable blue region grows toward richer I fraction with increasing MA (10%) content. The green "brightest PL" region broadly remains within high Cl% with MA loading, suggesting that this bright PL effect is more a consequence of the X-site fraction than the Asite fraction (ABX 3 ). KMC effectively uncovered latent structures within the dataset, demonstrating its strength in differentiating regions of distinct behavior. Notably, "brightest PL" and "most stable PL energy" clusters exhibited distinct separations in the latent space, illustrating KMC ability to identify clear differences in features. However KMC revealed less distinct separation for the "PL blueshi" and "PL blueshi & brighten" clusters, likely due to overlaps in their feature spaces. This overlap manifested as ambiguous uctuating boundaries in the 5% and 10% MA compositional spaces, suggesting an ambiguity between these distinct behaviors at these halide compositions. 
 Prototyping a durable composition Armed with a clustered compositional space, we use the promising "most stable PL energy" cluster to construct a Gaussian process regression (GPR) model 67 that correlates composition to PL peak shi stability. The model is t using each sample euclidean distance from the origin on the thermal and photo PL peak shi axis to predict a composition with no shi. The relevant halide space is dened in Fig.  5a , with 3 MA slices showing the GPR ts in Fig.  5b-d  (model full space with ner increments of MA slices provided as a Video in the ESI †). The GPR predicted that no shi would be seen upon photo-or thermal stability testing of a lm with composition MA 0.035 -FA 0.78 Cs 0.185 Pb(I 0.866 Br 0.134 ) 3 . For synthesis considering this target composition, we added a small fraction of methylammonium chloride (MACl) to the precursor ink as a crystallization additive that is known to volatilize out of the lm during annealing.  56, 81  The nominal precursor composition selected for device prototyping was thus: MA 0.035 FA 0.78 Cs 0.185 Pb(I 0.863 -Br 0.132 Cl 0.005 ) 3 . This composition is shown as a star symbol in Fig.  5c . PASCAL thin lms produced at this composition resulted in #1 meV (Table  S2  †) PL peak shi under heat and photoexposure. Prototype devices were fabricated with PCEs reaching above 15.5% with no interface or bulk passivation. The devices V oc distribution showed an IQR of 30 mV (Fig.  S10 † ). While our focus was on rapid screening and development of the bare perovskite thin lm stability, we anticipate that improvements in stability of the absorber layer will likely contribute positively to overall device durability. In short, the GPR model successfully assisted in down selection of a composition with minimal PL peak shi. However, we do advise caution in the blanket application of GPR across the full composition space here or in wider searches in perovskites. Specically, instances of pronounced contrasts, like the distinct PL peak energy (Fig.  S4 † ) and intensity (Fig.  S5  †) observed at high Cl fractions, corresponding to underlying phase separation, may be better suited to other models such as random forest regressions, 82 ridge regressions,  83  or physics injected Bayesian models  12, 39  that may enable prediction of sharp phase boundaries. Furthermore, the photo-and thermal stability tests on bare perovskite thin lms are of course preliminary. Further development requires the ultimate application of more comprehensive standardized tests, such as the ISOS consensus tests  84  or the IEC terrestrial photovoltaic standards.  85  Further testing of promising compositions in nal device architectures could establish more full correlations with relevant photovoltaic durability metrics and perhaps identify early lm-level tests like those used here that may predict downstream device durability. 
 Conclusions In this work, we introduce PASCAL, the Perovskite Automated Spin Coating Assembly Line, a high-throughput automated platform designed for accelerating the spin coating and analysis of thin lms. PASCAL provides signicantly enhanced control over spin coated thin lm fabrication, surpassing the limitations of manual methods without compromise on thin lm architecture. We leverage PASCAL's repeatability to address sensitive processing parameters known to challenge halide perovskite fabrication, such as anti-solvent drop timings. With PASCAL, we identify and minimize the inuence of previously hidden variables, such as solvent partial pressure, thereby achieving a high level of repeatability. This advancement facilitates extensive compositional screening where we reproducibly analyze 58 unique compositions within the complex triplehalide, triple-cation composition space. With this screening dataset, we leverage machine learning to develop a durable composition that displays nearly zero photoluminescence peak shis under both 85 °C and approximately 4-sun photoexposure. Finally, we prototype this composition in singlejunction devices. PASCAL's capabilities to efficiently screen in composition and process space for development of solution-processed lms and multilayer devices are demonstrated here with a focus on halide perovskites. More broadly, the automation of solution processing of thin lms permits applications across early-stage research leveraging the rapid prototyping enabled by spin coating and non-contact optoelectronic characterization. Moreover, ink design for transferability to scalable meniscus coating can be rapidly prototyped within PASCAL (e.g. antisolvent free deposition). Looking forward, the automation, repeatability and high-throughput of PASCAL paves the way for future high-dimensional lm deposition studies, rapid optimization, and interlaboratory control. Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 (a) Typical workflow schematic of PASCAL (left to right). (b) Photograph of PASCAL inside controlled glovebox environment. Color labels depict various components. Example demonstration of PASCAL in-line characterization suite on 1.64 eV bandgap perovskite sub-cells (Glass/ITO/MeO-2PACz/perovskite) including (c) brightfield imaging, (d) darkfield imaging, (e) PL imaging, and (f) point spectra of PL (yellowgreen) and of transmission (dark blue). Scale bar 1.5 mm. 
 4 . 1 . 2 412 Batch-to-batch control. In serial processing mode, using a similar triple-halide composition to Xu et al., 56 (Cs 0.22 -FA 0.78 Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 ) with 3% excess MAPbCl 3 and 9% excess PbI 2 , we produced 5 batches of sub-cells (Glass/ITO/MeO-2PACz/perovskite) and then compared their performance to device. Exemplary XRD and SEM measurement of standalone lms on glass are shown in Fig. S2. † The sub-cells are nished with thermal evaporation of C60/BCP/Ag outside of PASCAL in a separate glovebox, with the full device schematic shown in Fig. 3a. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 (a) Architecture of devices employed in this paper. (b) Reverse JV scan curves of devices (Cs 0.22 FA 0.78 Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 ) from 5 combined batches, PCE of curves depicted by color bar. Bottom left inset example photo of 16 PASCAL fabricated 1 cm 2 devices inside 5 cm 2 container. (c) Box plots of device reverse scan PCE, and combined summary distribution. (d) Box plots of sub-cell delta implied opencircuit voltage (red, above) and device open-circuit voltage (black, below). Batches are labeled in order of fabrication. 
 Fig. 4 4 Fig. 4 (a) Spectral clustering latent space, with arbitrary spectral embedding units. (b-d) Feature space plots of characterized samples, with each sample colored according to spectral cluster. Design goals in dashed black line. Yellow star depicts GPR assisted composition. (e-g) Ternary plots of tested compositions MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 , MA content above ternary. Spectral clustered and manually labeled distinct regions shaded in with nearest neighbor interpolation according to colorbar below. Areas of no experiment, I-and Cl-rich corners, are shaded out. 
 
 For Sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 we used a Cs 0.22 FA 0.78 Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 perovskite composition with 3% excess MAPbCl 3 . For Section 4.2, the case study on wide bandgap composition screening, 8 "endpoint" stock solutions were prepared by hand to reach a nominal composition of MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 (Table 2 Experimental methods 2.1 Preparation of absorber stock solutions 
 Table 1 1 Stock solutions to create MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 x y z 0 0.1 0 0 0.2 0 0 0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0 0.1 0.2 0 0.1 0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry Digital Discovery, 2024, 3, 1236-1246 | 1239 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry Digital Discovery, 2024, 3, 1236-1246 | 1241 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry Digital Discovery, 2024, 3, 1236-1246 | 1243 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry Digital Discovery, 2024, 3, 1236-1246 | 1245 
			 | Digital Discovery, 2024, 3, 1236-1246 © 2024 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry
Paper #: 10544_2


Figure S1 S1 Figure S1 Example timing distribution of a typical 45-sample fabrication with an antisolvent process. a) Example RPM record and timing. RPM trace in black, and antisolvent timing density in brown. b) Histogram zoom into timing density for antisolvent drop timing. c) Histogram of anneal duration error (actual -target). 
 Figure Figure S2 a) XRD and b) SEM of a Cs 0.22 FA 0.78 Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 composition film on glass. XRD measured in parallel-beam mode at ω=10°. 
 Figure FigureS3iVoc on subcell architectures calculated from PLQY and the 1.67eV MHP detailed balance limit. 
 Figure S4 S4 Figure S4 PL peak energy for MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 films. Corresponding MA content is listed above each ternary, with shared color bar below. 
 Figure S6 S6 Figure S6 Change in PL intensity after photoexposure of MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 films, MA content above ternary, with color bar below. 
 Figure S7 S7 Figure S7 PL peak shift after photoexposure for MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 films, MA content above ternary, with color bar below. 
 Figure S8 S8 Figure S8 PL intensity change after thermal degradation of MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 films, MA content above ternary, with color bar below. 
 Figure S9 S9 Figure S9 PL peak shift after thermal testing of MA x FA 0.78 Cs 0.22-x Pb(I 0.8-y-z Br y Cl z ) 3 films, MA content above ternary, with color bar below. 
 Figure S10 S10 Figure S10 Reverse scan JV curves of prototype device of a MA 0.035 FA 0.78 Cs 0.185 Pb(I 0.863 Br 0.132 Cl 0.005 ) 3 composition. Box plots of device b) PCE, c) Voc, d) Jsc metrics. 
 
 Table S1 S1 Average feature values of clusters.TableS2Average PL peak shift after thermal and photo-exposure for a MA 0.035 FA 0.78 Cs 0.185 Pb(I 0.863 Br 0.132 Cl 0.005 ) 3 composition thin film. Cluster labels PL Test PL Photo: PL PL peak shift (meV) Thermal: PL Photo: PL Thermal: PL peak Photo intensity -0.53 ± 0.09 intensity intensity peak shift peak shift energy Thermal (a.u.) change -0.66 ± 0.12 change (I-I0, meV) (I-I0, meV) (eV) (I/I0) (I/I0) Brightest PL 1.63 5.5 1.05 0.27 -10 28.5 PL blueshift & brighten 1.62 1.22 1.57 0.31 -2.7 17.3 PL blueshift 1.66 1.15 0.99 0.17 0.4 29.4 Most stable PL energy 1.66 0.62 0.71 0.16 0.7 -0.4
