Paper #: 19097_1
Title: Supporting Information: Understanding ligand exchange and surface passivation in CdS quantum dots from first principles

100 ). The VBM of the CdS surface is set to be energy zero in PDOS panels. The structures are to be compared to Figure  4e  and Figure  4f  in the main text, respectively. Unlike Figure  4 , no bridging -OH co-ligands are used in the structures shown here. The PDOS panels are to be compared to Figure  5e  and Figure  5f  in the main text, respectively. Due to the lack of bridging -OH co-ligands, the surface is not fully passivated, giving rise to in-gap states. Table  S1 : GW convergence study of two typical systems. The first system is similar to Figure  4d  in the main text, but with extra H 2 O molecules binding to the surface, which does not change the parameters needed to converge the GW results. The second system is shown in Figure  4h  in the main text. N b is the number of bands included in the summation for the calculation of Kohn-Sham polarizability. E cut is the energy cutoff for the dielectric function. E GW g is the electronic band gap calculated from GW , which is the energy difference between E GW CBM and E GW VBM . For all the results reported in the main text, N b = 4000 and E cut = 12 Ry (18 Ry) for CdS (111) [CdS (100)] interfaces. We can see that these parameters are adequate to converge GW results.  Figure  S4 : BSE convergence study of TGA binding to CdS (100) using the -S group. The GW calculation uses N b = 4000 and E cut = 18 Ry. We compare optical absorption calculated using different N coarse and N fine . N coarse is the number of bands included on the "coarse" kgrid where the electron-hole interaction kernel is explicitly calculated. N fine is the number of bands included on the "fine" k-grid where the BSE Hamiltonian is constructed. We include the same number of valence and conduction bands, i.e., N fine (or N coarse ) refers to both the number of valence bands and the number of conduction bands included in the active space. For all the results reported in the main text, N coarse = 12 and N fine = 6. We can see that they are adequate to converge the absorption spectrum past the first major peak. N b E cut (Ry) E GW VBM (eV) E GW CBM (eV) E GW g (eV Figure S1 : S1 Figure S1: Optimized structures (upper panels) and DFT (LDA) PDOS (lower panels) of interfaces formed between (a) OA and (b) SA on CdS (100). The VBM of the CdS surface is set to be energy zero in PDOS panels. The structures are to be compared to Figure4eand Figure4fin the main text, respectively. Unlike Figure4, no bridging -OH co-ligands are used in the structures shown here. The PDOS panels are to be compared to Figure5eand Figure5fin the main text, respectively. Due to the lack of bridging -OH co-ligands, the surface is not fully passivated, giving rise to in-gap states. 
 FigureFigure S3 : S3 Figure S2: Γ-point PDOS for TGA binding to CdS (100) using the -COO linker. The structure is shown in Figure 4g in the main text. The VBM of the CdS surface is set to be energy zero. Solid lines are from GW and dashed lines are from DFT (LDA) calculations. k-averaged DFT PDOS is shown in Figure 5g in the main text. Blue color denotes CdS contribution and gray color denotes ligand contribution. Similar to Figure 6a in the main text, for the -COO binding mode, DFT and GW yield qualitatively different types of heterostructure: the ligand PDOS peak between 0 and 1 eV in DFT calculation is shifted below the CdS VBM in GW . To reduce the computational cost, we only performed the calculation at the Γ point, sufficient to show the qualitative difference between GW and DFT. 
 N coarse = 12; N fine = 6 N coarse = 14; N fine = 8 N coarse = 20; N fine = 12 N coarse = 20; N fine = 16
Paper #: 19097_2
Title: Understanding Ligand Exchange and Surface Passivation in CdS Quantum Dots from First Principles
The capping ligands on quantum dots (QDs) play a critical role in determining their stability and properties, making the ligand exchange process pivotal. However, rational design rules for selecting ligands to effectively passivate QD surfaces are lacking. In this study, we employ first-principles density functional theory and many-body perturbation theory to systematically examine how various ligands affect surface passivation and modulate the electronic and optical properties of QDs. We focus on the (111) and (100) facets of zinc-blende CdS QDs and survey several common ligands: chlorine (-Cl), amine (-NH 2 ), oleic acid [CH 3 (CH 2 ) 7 CH = CH(CH 2 ) 7 COOH], stearic acid [CH 3 (CH 2 ) 16 COOH], and thioglycolic acid (HS-CH 2 -COOH). We elucidate the trends in surface passivation based on an electron counting argument. We discuss different effects associated with the ligand exchange, including the interface dipole, ligand binding mode, and many-body interactions. Our work provides structureproperty relationships to pave the way for the rational design of effective QD ligands.
■ INTRODUCTION Colloidal quantum dots (QDs) are often synthesized from molecular precursors in solution to form nanoscale inorganic materials, stabilized by bulky organic ligands coated on their surfaces.  [1] [2] [3] [4]  The ligands passivate the surface,  5, 6  reducing the electron and hole trap states  2, 7  that would otherwise quench the fluorescence emission  8, 9  or affect the charge transfer dynamics.  [10] [11] [12] [13]  For II-VI semiconductor QDs, commonly used ligands include oleic acid [OA, CH 3 (CH 2 ) 7 CH = C H ( C H 2 ) 7 C O O H ] 1 4 -1 6 a n d s t e a r i c a c i d [ S A , CH 3 (CH 2 ) 16 COOH].  17, 18  The carboxyl group binds to surface metal atoms and the long aliphatic chain provides steric hindrance to prevent the self-aggregation of QDs.  19  During the synthesis, the ligands can be used to control the nucleation and growth kinetics,  [20] [21] [22]  effectively tuning the phase (wurtzite or zinc blende),  23  facet distribution (3D morphology),  24  size,  16, 25, 26  and shape  27  of the QDs. Despite these advantages, the bulky ligands with long aliphatic chains are electronically insulating, which prevents efficient charge transport in films,  28, 29  affecting the conductivity.  30, 31  Furthermore, the ligands reduce the packing density of QDs in films, limiting the performance of QD-based optoelectronic devices.  32  As a remedy, a common approach is ligand exchange, a process in which the native bulky ligands are swapped for shorter ones such as thioglycolic acid [TGA, HS-CH 2 -COOH].  [33] [34] [35] [36]  Ligand exchange is found to improve interparticle coupling in nanocrystals by reducing the tunneling distance for the carriers.  35, 36  As a result, shortening the ligand increases carrier mobility and affects carrier and exciton dynamics.  37  It is important to note that not all ligand exchanges are perfect because, for a specific surface, only certain types of ligands can fully passivate the surface in the sense that all surface dangling bonds are "sealed". To understand the relationship between the type of ligands and the surface passivation, we employ the electron counting model  38  based on the coordination of surface atoms. Here we briefly explain this model using CdS as an example. In bulk zinc-blende (zb) CdS, each Cd atom forms 4 bonds with 4 neighboring S atoms using 2 valence electrons from its 5s shell, hence contributing 0.5 electrons to each Cd-S bond. Similarly, each S atom forms 4 bonds with 4 neighboring Cd atoms using 6 valence electrons from its 3p shell, hence contributing 1.5 electrons to each Cd-S bond. In Figure  1a , we show a Cd-rich zb-CdS (111) surface and a Cd-rich zb-CdS (100) surface. In the former (latter), for each surface Cd atom, one (two) Cd-S bond is missing due to the creation of the Cd-rich surface. Therefore, each surface Cd atom needs 1.5 extra electrons (3 extra electrons) to stay fully passivated. For conciseness, we limit our discussions in this work to Cd-rich surfaces, and the S-rich surfaces can be understood using similar arguments. This electron counting model underlies the use of pseudo hydrogen atoms (with a fractional number of electrons) in simulating ideally passivated QDs.  [38] [39] [40] [41]  To connect this idea to specific ligands, it is imperative to understand how different types of ligands bind to surface metal atoms, and consequently, contribute to surface passivation. Two types of ligands are commonly used in the exchange,  5, 42  as shown in Figure  1a : the neutral L-type ligand  43, 44  that donates a lone pair of electrons to surface metal atoms, and the anionic X-type ligand  45, 46  that forms a single covalent bond with a surface metal atom. In this work, we first perform a systematic study of surface passivation for two common facets of zb-CdS QD: the Cd-rich (111) and (100) surfaces. We compare different combinations of L-type and X-type ligands against the aforementioned requirement for a full surface passivation, by employing density functional theory (DFT) to qualitatively illustrate the trends. After that, we investigate in detail the effects of ligand exchange among three commonly used ligands: OA, SA, and TGA. We employ first-principles many-body perturbation theory to quantitatively describe the band gaps, band alignments, and optical properties of the interfaces formed between ligands and CdS surfaces. Our work provides a rationalization of the surface passivation schemes and offers insights into ligand exchange on QD surfaces. The structure of this paper is as follows. We first describe the computational methods, including details of the DFT and many-body calculations. Then we discuss the surface  passivation of zb-CdS (111) and (100) surfaces, by systematically varying the combination of model L-type (methylamine, MA) and X-type (chlorine atom) ligands. After that, we perform case studies of the ligand exchange process, by computing the electronic and optical properties of interfaces formed between different ligands (OA, SA, and TGA) and different zb-CdS QD facets [(111) and (100) surfaces]. Finally, we provide concluding remarks and discuss how our computational results explain and guide experiments. 
 ■ COMPUTATIONAL METHODS To reduce the computational cost of simulating an entire QD with ligands, we model different facets of QD as periodic CdS surfaces. We focus on Cd-rich (111) and (100) surfaces in the zb phase, which are among the most stable facets.  5  We construct these two surfaces from bulk zb-CdS, whose optimized lattice constant is 5.76 Å in our calculations using the local density approximation (LDA),  47, 48  in good agreement with the experimental value 49 of 5.825 Å. The surfaces are modeled with four layers of Cd atoms and four layers of S atoms, with the bottom S-rich surface passivated by pseudo hydrogen atoms of 0.5 electrons to remove the artificial effects of dangling bonds in the modeling (see, e.g., Figure  2 ), consistent with previous work on CdS QDs.  38, 41, 50  We have checked that the LDA projected density of states (PDOS) is converged with respect to the thickness of the CdS slab. After the ligands are installed on the top Cd-rich surface, the atoms belonging to the ligand and the top half of the CdS substrate are fully relaxed until the residual forces are below 0.05 eV/Å. The geometry relaxations use LDA as implemented in the Quantum ESPRESSO package,  51  optimized norm-conserving Vanderbilt pseudopotentials,  52, 53  an energy cutoff of 90 Ry, a k-mesh of 6 × 6 × 1 (8 × 8 × 1) for interfaces constructed from the CdS (111) [(100)] surface, and a vacuum of approximately 18 Å in the nonperiodic direction. Using the relaxed structures, single-point self-consistent calculations are then performed to obtain the PDOS and band structures using LDA. We do not expect that the optimized geometries or PDOS will be qualitatively different if a semilocal functional is used instead. To quantitatively correct the inaccuracies of LDA in calculating the band gaps and band alignments, we employ the GW-BSE approach  [54] [55] [56]  (G: Greens function; W: screened Coulomb interaction; BSE: Bethe-Salpeter equation) to describe the electronic and optical properties of several experimentally relevant ligand-QD interfaces to illustrate the effects of the ligand exchange. The calculations are perturbative, i.e., G 0 W 0 @LDA, as implemented in the BerkeleyGW package.  57  In the calculation of the noninteracting Kohn-Sham polarizability, we include 4000 bands for all interface systems, and use a q-mesh of 6 × 6 × 1 (8 × 8 × 1) for interfaces constructed from the CdS (111) [(100)] surface. The dielectric cutoff is 12 and 18 Ry for these two types of interfaces, respectively. These parameters are adequate to converge the GW electronic structure, as shown in Table  S1  in the Supporting Information. The slab Coulomb truncation scheme  58  is used to eliminate the spurious Coulomb interactions between the periodic images in the nonperiodic directions. In the self-energy calculations, we employ the Hybertsen-Louie generalized plasmon pole (GPP) model  55  for the frequency dependence of the dielectric function and the static remainder  59  to speed up the convergence with respect to the number of bands in the Green's function. We note in passing that in general, one needs to go beyond the GPP model to reach a quantitative agreement with experiment in band edge energy levels,  60, 61  especially for heterogeneous systems.  62  In this work, the use of GPP throughout all systems ensures trend-wise consistency and avoids excessively high computational cost. After the GW calculations of the quasiparticle electronic structure, we perform BSE calculations to obtain the optical absorption spectra of these interfaces. In all BSE calculations, 12 valence bands and 12 conduction bands are included in the active space to compute the electron-hole interaction kernel, on the same coarse q-grid as in the GW calculations. This is then further interpolated to a fine k-mesh of 12 × 12 × 1 (16 × 16 × 1) for interfaces arising from the CdS (111) [(100)] surface, to construct the BSE Hamiltonian which includes 6 valence bands and 6 conduction bands on the fine k-mesh. These parameters are adequate to converge the optical absorption spectra calculated using BSE, as shown in Figure  S4  in the Supporting Information. After the BSE Hamiltonian is diagonalized, a Gaussian broadening of 0.05 eV is applied to each excitation energy to obtain the imaginary part of the dielectric function as the optical absorption spectra. ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS Surface Passivation of zb-CdS (111) and (100) Using X-Type and L-Type Ligands. We first investigate the surface passivation of the Cd-rich zb-CdS (111) surface, to reveal the relationship between the type of ligands used and the extent of passivation (i.e., whether the surface atoms are fully coordinated without dangling bonds). To this end, we use simple model ligands and the discussion can be easily extended to other ligands with similar linker groups. Cl is a typical Xtype ligand  5, 63  that can form a covalent bond with a surface Cd atom. In such a scenario (shown in Figure  1b ), the Cl atom contributes 1 electron to passivate the surface. MA is a typical L-type ligand  46, 64  that can donate a lone pair of electrons on the N atom to a surface Cd atom. In such a scenario (shown in Figure  1c ), MA contributes 2 electrons to passivate the surface. To illustrate the idea of the electron counting model,  38  we systematically vary the ratio of MA and Cl binding to the surface. The zb-CdS (111) surface is modeled by its hexagonal unit cell, with 4 surface Cd atoms. Each panel in Figure  2  shows two such unit cells. As discussed in Figure  1a , the 4 surface Cd atoms need a total of 4 × 1.5 = 6 electrons from the ligands to be fully passivated. In Figure  2a , all the 4 ligands attached to surface Cd atoms are MA, contributing to 4 × 2 = 8 electrons to the surface passivation. In Figure  2b , one MA (L-type) is replaced by a Cl atom (X-type), providing 3 × 2 + 1 = 7 electrons. In Figure  2c , two ligands are MA and two ligands are Cl, providing 2 × 2 + 2 × 1 = 6 electrons. In Figure  2d , three ligands are Cl and one ligand is MA, providing 5 electrons. In Figure  2e , all the 4 ligands are Cl, providing 4 electrons. The lower five panels in Figure  2  show the DFT (using the LDA functional) electronic band structures corresponding to the five systems discussed above. We color-code them to show the contribution from the CdS substrate (blue), MA (red), and Cl (green), respectively. The energy of the valence band maximum (VBM) of the pristine CdS substrate is set to be zero. In all panels except for Figure  2c , the horizontal black line denotes the Fermi level of the interface from the calculation. In Figure  2c , the black line is the VBM of the interface. One can see that only Figure  2c  maintains the semiconducting nature of the pristine CdS. This is because the number of electrons provided by the 1:1 mix of MA and Cl (6 electrons) match exactly what is needed to fully passivate the 4 surface Cd atoms to make them completely coordinated, such that no dangling bonds exist. On the contrary, Figure  2a ,b are "electron-doped", in the sense that the Fermi level is within the conduction bands of the otherwise pristine CdS. Physically, this is because the number of electrons provided by the ligands (8 in panel a and 7 in panel b) is larger than what is needed for full passivation. Similarly, Figure  2d ,e are "hole-doped", because the number of electrons provided by the ligands (5 in panel d and 4 in panel e) is less than what is needed for full passivation. These results are consistent with prior computational studies of semiconducting surfaces. Reference 65 showed that a 1:3 ratio of amines and chlorines is needed to passivate the surface of InP QDs to make them stable and devoid of surface in-gap states.  65, 66  Similarly, ref 67 showed that the surface states of cation-rich facets of II-VI, IV-VI, and III-V QDs can be removed, and the stability can be improved after passivation with a ratio of L-type and X-type ligands satisfying the electron counting argument. Our computational results provide insights into the experimental synthesis of these QDs. First, the electron counting argument limits the type and stoichiometry of ligands that one can use in both the synthesis and the ligand exchange procedure. If the wrong type or stoichiometry is used, the resulting QD will not maintain the semiconducting properties of the parent material or exhibit extra surface dangling bonds that can behave as trap states, 65,67 limiting the application of  the QD. Second, the electron counting argument can be used to guide the effective passivation of QDs with known surface defects or surface trap states. For instance, if a QD is known to feature hole-doping surface states due to an excess of X-type ligands, one can remove those trap states by applying L-type ligands to the QD. In ref 68, molecular Cl 2 was used to react with Pb atoms to form a thin PbCl x passivation layer on the surface to prevent oxidation of the PbSe QD. Similarly, In ref 65, stable InP QDs are synthesized by utilizing indium trichloride as the indium precursor to stabilize the cation-rich surface. In Figure  2 , we analyzed ligands that are either L-type or Xtype. In reality, some ligands can serve as both L-type and Xtype. A prominent example is -COO, as we schematically show in Figure  1d : the lone pair of electrons on the oxygen atom of the carbonyl group serves as L-type, and the unpaired electron on the other oxygen atom serves as X-type. We emphasize that what Figure  1d  shows is one of the two resonance structures of the delocalized electronic structure of a carboxylate, to provide a heuristic argument. Overall, a carboxylate contributes 3 electrons to the binding, capable of passivating two Cd atoms on the (111) surface. This will be verified in Figure  4  below with ligands that are commonly used in experiments. Similar to the zb-CdS (111) surface, we discuss the case of the zb-CdS (100) surface in Figure  3 , another commonly seen facet in CdS QD. The zb-CdS (100) surface is modeled by its tetragonal unit cell, with 2 surface Cd atoms. Each upper panel in Figure  3  shows two such unit cells and each lower panel shows the corresponding electronic band structure. As discussed in Figure  1a , on the (100) surface, the two Cd atoms need 2 × 3 = 6 electrons to be fully passivated. In Figure  3a , both ligands attached to surface Cd atoms are MA, contributing 4 electrons. In Figure  3b , the two ligands in the unit cell are one Cl and one MA, contributing 3 electrons. Based on the electron counting argument above, we can expect that these two cases are not fully passivated. This is confirmed by the electronic band structure, where in-gap bands exist and the systems appear to be "metallic" in the sense that the Fermi level (the horizontal black line) crosses the in-gap band. Figure  3c  shows a fully passivated CdS (100) surface, where the band structure exhibits the usual semiconducting behavior of CdS. Here, two Cl atoms bind to the two surface Cd atoms in a bridging mode, i.e., μ 2 -Cl, similar to the -COO binding to CdS (111) surface shown in Figure  1d  (also see Figure  4  below). Importantly, unlike schematically shown in Figure  1b  and demonstrated in Figure  2 , here, Cl does not only work as an X-type ligand. Rather, in this bridging mode, the Cl contributes one unpaired electron and another lone pair of electrons, working as both X-type and L-type, analogous to the -COO shown in Figure  1d . In this manner, the two Cl atoms contribute 6 electrons to the binding, the exact number needed to passivate the CdS (100) surface. This bridging binding mode also ensures the tetrahedron structure for each Cd as in the bulk. In this sense, the surface bridging Cl ligands work just as the S atoms in the intrinsic CdS material, ensuring that the surface Cd atoms and the bulk Cd atoms have similar chemical environments. We provide a brief summary for this section. The facetdependent passivation schemes discussed here give insights into the ratio of passivating ligands required for QDs or nanocrystals with different shapes. For example, if one plans to use both Cl and amines to passivate the surfaces, a nanoplatelet with more exposed (100) facets may need a larger amount of Cl, as compared to materials with more (111) facets that require an equal amount of Cl and amines. We also comment that although we used the LDA within the framework of DFT to study the trends in surface passivation, the conclusions will stay the same at the GW level of theory, which generates qualitatively similar PDOS as DFT for most cases, but with larger band gaps for semiconductors. Moreover, we explained the trends in surface passivation using the electron counting argument, which is based on the charge transfer and the bond formation between the ligand and the surface. Both effects can be well described by the LDA functional. Lastly, we note that although the electron counting argument is useful in understanding qualitatively how the surface can be fully passivated, it does not predict the strengths or the nature of the bonds formed between the ligand and the surface. The latter depends on the alignment of the prebond orbital energies of metal atoms and ligands. Ligand Exchange of OA, SA, and TGA on zb-CdS (111) and (100). In this section, we study the ligand exchange between OA, SA, and TGA on zb-CdS (  111 ) and (100) surfaces. These three ligands are commonly used in the synthesis of CdS QDs. Figure  4  shows the optimized structures of all interfaces we study, with panels a-d illustrating the interfaces formed using the CdS (111) surface, and panels e-h illustrating the cases for the CdS (100) surfaces. Each panel in Figure  4  contains two unit cells. Both OA and SA bind to the CdS surface with the -COO group bridging two neighboring Cd atoms, as shown in Figure  4a ,b,e,f. This is in agreement with prior experimental  69, 70  and computational  45  findings that the carboxylates prefer the bridging mode over the unidentate mode. On the (111) surface (Figure  4a, b ), the -COO group works as both L-type and X-type, contributing 3 electrons to the binding, as Figure  1d  indicates. Therefore, the two OA/SA molecules in the unit cell contribute 6 electrons, the exact number needed to passivate the 4 Cd atoms (one can only see 2 surface Cd atoms and 1 OA/SA molecule per unit cell in Figure  4a ,b due to the viewing angle). On the (100) surface (Figure  4e ,f), each unit cell has 2 surface Cd atoms, which need 6 electrons to be fully passivated, according to Figure  1a  and discussions therein. However, the 1 OA/SA molecule in the unit cell can only provide 3 electrons, resulting in surface states within the CdS band gap (see Figure  S1  in the Supporting Information). Due to steric hindrance, we cannot fit another OA/SA molecule into the unit cell. To achieve full passivation, another species must be present on the surface. Here, we choose a bridging hydroxide (i.e., a μ 2 -OH) to computationally complete the passivation, as we show in Figure  4e ,f. The bridging -OH also works as both L-type and X-type: the unpaired electron in the -OH works as X-type, and a lone pair of electrons on the oxygen atom works as L-type, similar to the -Cl in Figure  3c . Experimentally, the possible existence of -OH as a coligand has been verified in ref 15 for a PbS QD and is found to stabilize the PbS (111) facet. Alternatively, the passivation can be completed by another bridging ligand with a similar electronic structure. TGA can bind to the CdS surface using different linkers, the -COO, the -S, or both. The situation of the -COO binding is similar to that of OA/SA, as we illustrate in Figure  4c  for the (111) surface and Figure  4g  for the (100) surface. For the -S binding, we have found that the thiolate binds to the surface using a bridging mode similar to the carboxylate or the bridging -OH. It works as both L-type (using a lone pair of electrons) and X-type (using the unpaired electron), contributing 3 electrons to the binding, for both the (111) (Figure  4d ) and (100) (Figure  4h ) surfaces. This is also reminiscent of the -Cl in Figure  3c . One can identify the similarity between the -COO and -S binding modes by comparing Figure  4c ,d for the (111) surface, or Figure  4g ,h for the (100) surface. On the (111) surface, the -COO binding mode is slightly energetically more favorable than the -S binding mode, by about 1.5 kcal/mol. We note in passing that in Figure  4g , a bridging -OH plays the same role as the -COO or -S, as we could not fit another TGA into the simulation cell with -COO binding due to large steric hindrance. The DFT PDOS of Figure  4a -h are shown in Figure  5a-h , respectively. We make the following observations: (i) Except for the -COO binding mode of TGA (Figure  5c, g ), all cases display the type-I heterostructure, in the sense that ligand occupied orbitals are below the VBM of the CdS, and ligand unoccupied orbitals are above the conduction band minimum (CBM) of the CdS. (ii) For the -COO binding mode of TGA, ligand orbitals are present within the band gap of CdS (peaks between 0 and 1 eV in Figure  5c, g ) in DFT calculations. However, after the GW correction, these in-gap ligand states will be below the VBM of the CdS (see Figures  6a  and S2  in the Supporting Information), consistent with all other cases. This is an example where GW corrects the qualitative error of the LDA functional, as we elaborate below. (iii) The -OH coligand in Figure  5e ,f,g does not interfere with the main ligand (OA/SA/TGA), and its contribution to PDOS is very small. Without the -OH, the CdS (100) surface will not be properly passivated as we discussed above using the electron counting argument. Indeed, as Figure  S1  in the Supporting Information shows, in-gap states arising from the CdS slab are present, for OA/SA binding to CdS (100) without -OH (compare Figure  S1a  with Figures  4e  and 5e , or compare Figure  S1b  with Figures  4f  and 5f ). Due to the well-known inaccuracies of LDA in estimating the quasiparticle electronic structure such as the band gaps, we turn to first-principles GW for an accurate characterization of PDOS and band gaps. For most cases, GW and DFT generate qualitatively similar PDOS, but the GW gaps are larger. The exception is when TGA binds to the CdS surface using the -COO bridging mode. Figure  5c  shows the DFT PDOS for TGA binding to CdS (111), and Figure  5g  shows the case for CdS (100). In both cases, a peak arising from TGA orbitals is present between the VBM and the CBM of CdS. This is the type-II heterostructure, featuring a staggered band gap. However, after the GW self-energy correction, this peak is moved below the CdS VBM, as we show in Figure  6a , in which the DFT results (dashed lines) are reproduced from Figure  5c  to facilitate the comparison. Physically, this is due to the larger self-energy corrections for the localized molecular states compared to the bulk-like CdS states. In other words, GW predicts a type-I heterostructure as in all other cases studied in this work, featuring a straddling band gap. A similar result is shown in Figure  S2  in the Supporting Information for TGA binding to CdS (100) using the -COO bridging mode. The qualitative difference between DFT and GW underscores the importance of many-body interactions in determining interfacial electronic structure. Figure  6b  shows the band edge positions measured with respect to the vacuum level, computed from GW. The band gap values are also listed. We make the following observations In most cases, different strengths of the interface dipole modulate band edge positions moderately, as the trend shows across all interfaces arising from the CdS (111) surface (gray bars in Figure  6b ). Notably, in some cases, this effect is significant, due to a change in the sign of the interface dipole. For example, if we compare TGA binding to the CdS (111) and (100) surfaces using the -S bridge in Figure  6b , we see that the band edge positions differ by nearly 2 eV. This is due to the different signs of the interface dipole for the two cases (see Figure  S3  in the Supporting Information). As a result, when TGA binds to the CdS (100) surface using the -S bridge, the VBM/CBM energies are much closer to the vacuum level, as Figure  6b  shows. Similarly, if we compare TGA binding with the CdS (100) surface using the -S bridge and the -COO bridge in Figure  6b , we see that the band edge positions differ by more than 2 eV. This can again be attributed to the different signs of the interface dipole, as shown in Figure  S3  in the Supporting Information. Figure  6c  summarizes the optical absorption spectra of the interfaces studied, computed using BSE. The upper panel shows different ligands binding to the CdS (111) surface and the lower panel compares TGA binding to the CdS (111) and CdS (100) surfaces using the -S bridge. The first excitonic peak around 3 eV stays the same for all the ligands on the CdS (111) surface. This is because the first peak originates from the transition from CdS VBM to CdS CBM, so it is nearly not affected by the ligands binding to it. From the PDOS in Figure  5 , we can see that indeed, both VBM and CBM of the ligand-QD interface are localized on the CdS, rather than on the ligand (recall that even when DFT predicts qualitatively incorrect VBM/CBM, GW corrects the errors, as shown in Figures  6a  and S2  in the Supporting Information). For the lower panel, the peak shift arises from the difference in the CdS surface, as both the ligand and the binding mode are the same. The first main peak for TGA (-S bridge) binding to CdS (111) is 0.31 eV lower than that for TGA (-S bridge) binding to CdS (100). In Figure  6b , we can see that the transport gap of the former system is 0.32 eV lower than that of the latter (3.39 vs 3.71 eV), which can explain the peak shift in Figure  6c . Since the exciton binding energy is the difference between the transport gap (calculated from GW) and the optical excitation energy (calculated from BSE), we conclude that the exciton binding energies are similar for these two systems. This is a property of the CdS facet rather than a property of the ligand, because both the transport gap and the optical excitation are localized on the CdS slab. 
 ■ CONCLUSIONS In conclusion, our investigations into the ligand exchange and surface passivation of zb-CdS QDs using first-principles DFT and GW-BSE calculations provide valuable insights into the surface chemistry of QDs. We systematically varied the ratio of X-type (-Cl) and L-type (-NH 2 ) ligands and found that a 1:1 ratio of X-and L-type ligands can fully passivate the Cd-rich (111) surface, and the -Cl ligand can work as both X-and Ltype to fully passivate the Cd-rich (100) surface. These findings were rationalized using the electron counting argument. Furthermore, we analyzed the ligand exchange process on the (111) and (100) surfaces and demonstrated how the electronic and optical properties can be influenced when long ligands (such as OA or SA) are substituted by short ligands (such as TGA, for which two different binding modes were examined). Notably, while the band gaps and intrinsic optical transitions of CdS remain largely unaffected by the ligands, the band edge positions are subject to change due to interface dipoles. Additionally, our study underscored the importance of accounting for many-body interactions in firstprinciples calculations to address the intrinsic inaccuracies of DFT in band gaps and band alignments. Our work provides comprehensive structure-property relationships that can guide the rational design of ligands and QD materials in future research. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT 
 * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at  https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.chemmater.4c02232 . OA/SA binding to the CdS (100) surface without the bridging -OH coligand, and their PDOS. Comparison of Γ-point PDOS between DFT and GW for TGA binding to the CdS (100) surface using the -COO binding mode. Electrostatic potential along the nonperiodic direction of the simulation cell, for TGA binding to the CdS (111)/(100) surfaces using the -S binding mode, and TGA binding to the CdS (100) surface using the -COO binding mode. GW-BSE convergence studies using typical systems (PDF) ■  Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (a) X-type and L-type ligands, as well as the requirement for full passivation of Cd-rich zb-CdS (111) and zb-CdS (100) surfaces. Color code: Cd -magenta; S -yellow. The same color code is used throughout this paper. (b) The chlorine atom is an X-type ligand, contributing one electron to the surface passivation. (c) Methylamine is an L-type ligand, contributing two electrons to the surface passivation. (d) A bridging carboxylate acts simultaneously as both L-type and X-type, contributing three electrons to the surface passivation. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. Atomic structures (top) and color-coded electronic band structures (bottom) of Cd-rich zb-CdS (111) surfaces passivated with different ligands. (a) All ligands are MA. (b) MA/Cl = 3:1. (c) MA/Cl = 1:1. (d) MA/Cl = 1:3. (e) All ligands are Cl. Thin lines in the upper panels represent unit cells of the interfaces. Colors in the band structure: CdS surface -blue; MA -red; Cl -green. High-symmetry points: X = (0.5,0.0,0.0); K = (1/3,1/3,0.0) in direct coordinates in the reciprocal space. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Atomic structures (top) and color-coded electronic band structures (bottom) of Cd-rich zb-CdS (100) surfaces passivated with different ligands. (a) All ligands are MA. (b) MA/Cl = 1:1. (c) All ligands are Cl. Thin lines in the upper panels represent unit cells of the interfaces. Colors in the band structure: CdS surface -blue; MA -red; Cl -green. High-symmetry points: L = (0.5,0.0,0.0); X = (0.5,0.5,0.0) in direct coordinates in the reciprocal space. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. Optimized structures of interfaces formed between different ligands and Cd-rich facets of zb-CdS QD: (a) OA binding to CdS (111), (b) SA binding to CdS (111), (c) TGA binding to CdS (111) using the -COO group, (d) TGA binding to CdS (111) using the -S group, (e) OA binding to CdS (100), with additional -OH coligand, (f) SA binding to CdS (100), with additional -OH coligand, (g) TGA binding to CdS (100) using the -COO group, with additional -OH coligand, (h) TGA binding to CdS (100) using the -S group. Thin lines represent unit cells of the interfaces. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. DFT (using the LDA functional) PDOS of the structures shown in Figure 4, in arbitrary units. Panels a-h of this figure correspond to Figure 4a-h, respectively. Blue lines denote the contribution of the CdS surface. Gray lines denote the contribution of the ligands. Yellow lines denote the contribution of the bridging -OH as a coligand on the (100) surface. The VBM of the CdS surface is set to be energy zero in all panels. 
 (a) Comparison of PDOS between DFT (using the LDA functional) and GW, for TGA binding with CdS (111) using the -COO bridging mode. Solid lines are GW results and dashed lines are DFT results. CdS contributions are in blue and TGA contributions are in gray. The DFT results are reproduced from Figure 5c. (b) Band edge energies measured with respect to vacuum, calculated using GW. Gray bars are interfaces formed from CdS (111) and magenta bars are interfaces formed from CdS (100). (c) Optical absorption spectra calculated from BSE. The upper panel shows different interfaces formed from CdS (111), and the lower panel compares TGA binding to CdS (111) and CdS (100) surfaces using the -S bridging mode. 
 AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Author Zhen-Fei Liu -Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48202, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-2423-8430; Email: zfliu@ wayne.edu 
			 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 26, 2025 at 13:39:14 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.4c02232 Chem. Mater. 2024, 36, 11519-11528
