Paper #: 7638_1
Title: Enhanced charge carrier transport and defects mitigation of passivation layer for efficient perovskite solar cells

Supplementary Table  5  | Summary of certified performance parameters, bandgap values (E g ) and PCE S-Q limit values (PCE S-Q )  3  for reported high-efficiency normal structure PSCs (certified PCE > 25%). For the work without specific bandgap values mentioned in the articles, we obtained the rough values from the EQE spectra and Tauc plots. Reference V OC (V) J SC (mA/cm 2 )  FF (%) PCE (%) E g (eV) PCE S-Q (%) PCE/PCE S-Q (%) 4 1 Supplementary Fig. 4 | 4 GIXRD patterns at small angle region for BSPT perovskite films with different weight ratios between tBBAI and PPAI. Supplementary Fig. 7 | XPS spectra of pristine perovskite, perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and perovskite with BSPT. a, C 1s spectra. b, N 1s spectra. c, Pb 4f spectra. d, I 3d spectra. Supplementary Fig. 20 | Performances comparison between the reported results with high PCE (>25%) and our work.
Paper #: 7638_2


Editorial Note: This manuscript has been previously reviewed at another journal that is not operating a transparent peer review scheme. This document only contains reviewer comments and rebuttal letters for versions considered at Nature Communications. 
 REVIEWER COMMENTS Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): The authors acted on the feedback from referees (including this one) from the prior round of review. The work meets the high standards of Nature Comms. Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): The reviewer believes the authors have largely ignored comments and failed to address critical points, leading to more confusion and scientific inconsistencies rather than clarifying the results. Two serious shortcomings still exist in the revised manuscript: a) this is a follow-up of the reported work  (Science 377, 531-534 (2022) , in which some of the authors on this manuscript have reported efficiency values of 26%, and b) this revised work does not present any mechanistic or novel insights. Therefore, this manuscript should not be published in Nature Communications. I think the following comments should be considered seriously before submitting this work elsewhere. As the manuscript significantly relies on the structural feature observed at approximately 4.55 degrees in the x-ray pattern, the authors should bring out more experimental insights related to the crystallographic phase and transport properties of this phase. Both passivating molecules have similar functional groups; why their combination results in a better passivation effect should be explained. Arguably, improvement in photovoltaic performance compared to what has been reported previously in  Science, 377,531-534 (2022) , is marginal. The photocurrents exceeding 26.6 mA/cm2 are documented in the SI, yet the authors simply avoided giving any explanation by stating a figure of 26 mA/cm2 in their response. Simply citing a reference doesn't solve the problem related to the disagreement between the integrated photocurrents from EQE and those extracted from JV curves. Importantly, the stability data presented are inadequate. The authors again ignored the need to perform additional operational stability tests, including humidity, and UV irradiation. The justification given is not reasonable. Reviewer #4 (Remarks to the Author): I have had an opportunity to read the response letter and the revised manuscript from the authors. From my own perspective, the authors replied all the comments from each reviewer well and adequately. Specifically, the all-atom molecular dynamics (AA-MD) simulation calculation results supplemented by the authors in the revised manuscript and the response letter leaves a deep impression on me, which could explain the experimental results at a molecular level and bring more insights on the molecular packing and interaction between the two material tBBAI and PPAI. The additional information including GIXRD results to prove the Vegard law (Supplementary Fig.  3 ), the XPS and PLQY results of perovskite films with different post-treatment conditions (Supplementary Fig.  5  and 10), the cross-sectional SEM image of the whole device (Supplementary Fig.  12 ), the thermal stability data of the device (Supplementary Fig.  19 ) and the test conditions of steady-state PL intensity in the revised manuscript are acknowledged. Please provide some comments on how to further improve the stability of regular structure of planar structure perovskite solar cells in the manuscript to push the field closer to commercialization. Other than this point, I think the manuscript is now ready for publication in Nature Communications. 
 A List of All Revisions and Responses to Reviewer's Comments for: Manuscript number: NCOMMS-24-25808-T We really appreciate the Reviewers' comments and suggestions, which really help us to further improve the manuscript. We have fully addressed all the concerns mentioned by the reviewers, we hope the Reviewers would satisfy with our responses. 
 Reviewer #1 1. "The authors acted on the feedback from referees (including this one) from the prior round of review. The work meets the high standards of Nature Comms.".  Our response: Thanks for the Reviewer's very positive comments on our revision and also the strong support on our work. 
 Reviewer #2 1. "The reviewer believes the authors have largely ignored comments and failed to address critical points, leading to more confusion and scientific inconsistencies rather than clarifying the results. Two serious shortcomings still exist in the revised manuscript: a) this is a follow-up of the reported work (Science 377, 531-534 (2022), in which some of the authors on this manuscript have reported efficiency values of 26%, and b) this revised work does not present any mechanistic or novel insights. Therefore, this manuscript should not be published in Nature Communications. I think the following comments should be considered seriously before submitting this work elsewhere."  Our response: Thanks for the reviewer's critical comments on our manuscript, which is helpful for us further improving the manuscript.  For the efficiency, in our previous work  (Science, 377, 531-534 2022) , we reported a new secondary phase (PbI 2 ) 2 RbCl for stabilizing perovskite and also efficiently passivating grain boundary, and a 26.1% laboratory measured efficiency (25.7% for steady output efficiency) and 25.6% certificated efficiency. In present work, by designing and modulating the passivation layer, a 26.7% laboratory measured efficiency and a 26.0% certificated efficiency have been achieved, the 26% certiticated efficiency has been collected as a world record in the NREL chart. The absolute value improvement of efficiency reached are 0.7% and 0.4% for laboratory measured and certificated efficiencies, considering that the efficiency was already very high for our control samples, we fully believe this is a significant improvement.  Although the two materials, PPAI and tBBAI were both reported by other groups, this is the first time blending them together. More importantly, when mixing the two materials as the passivation layer, some novel properties emerged compared with PPAI or tBBAI unary layer, which we explained the mechanism based on simulation and experiment results in our manuscript. As far as we know, most literatures focused on the passivation function, while we focused on the charge carrier transport property of passivation layer. We believe this insight is novel. 
 "As the manuscript significantly relies on the structural feature observed at approximately 4.55 degrees in the x-ray pattern, the authors should bring out more experimental insights related to the crystallographic phase and transport properties of this phase."  Our response: Thanks the Reviewer's comment and fruitful suggestion. We further deposited our tBBAI-PPAI blended layer on the glass substrate and conducted GIXRD measurement to the sample. Through this way, we could exclude the influence of perovskite to the XRD results. The GIXRD result is shown below (Fig.  R1 ). From the result, we could see that the 2θ value corresponding to the diffraction intensity peak is basically accordance with the 4.55 degrees observed before. This could indicate that the tBBAI-PPAI blended layer generally exists in the intrinsic mode when deposited on perovskite surface rather than reacting with perovskite. We also conducted I-V measurements based on ITO/PPAI/Au or ITO/PPAI+tBBAI/Au structures. The result is shown below (Fig.  R2 ). The PPAI+tBBAI case showed a larger slope than PPAI case, which proved that PPAI-tBBAI phase owned a lower resistance and a better charge transport property than PPAI. This result is accordance with the decreased series resistance values of target perovskite solar cell devices compared with control devices (Supplementary Fig.  16  in revised manuscript). We have supplemented those results in our revised manuscript.   
 "Both passivating molecules have similar functional groups; why their combination results in a better passivation effect should be explained." Our response: Thanks for the Reviewer's comment. For the single passivation such as PPAI or tBBAI, because its insulated properties, the passivation layer could not be very thick, this could lead to the incomplete coverage on the perovskite surface (Supplementary Fig.  11b ), which lead to imperfect passivation. While combining the PPAI and tBBAI together, due to the increase conductivity of the passivation layer, which allowed to increase the thickness of the passivation layer. In this manuscript, we use the high concentration of PPAI and tBBAI mixed solution coating on the perovskite layer, this will make sure the passivation layer could be fully covered on the perovskite layer (Supplementary Fig.  11c ), better coverage will result in better passivation. The highest Pb:I ratio from XPS results in BSPT sample (Supplementary Fig.  7c-d     , 2019, 13, 460-466) . 
 Photonics  In page 11, a sentence "BSPT strategy offered the passivation layer a better charge transport property, which allowed a higher total solution concentration than the unary passivation conditions, resulting in better coverage (Supplementary Fig.  11 ) of passivation layer and better passivation effect." has explained the better passivation of the BSPT strategy.  As for photocurrent, there could be many factors related to the disagreement between the integrated photocurrents from EQE and those extracted from JV curves in the field of perovskite solar cells  (Nat. Commun., 2023, 14, 5445) . Especially, the incident light intensity is quite different for the two measurement situations. When measuring the device JV curves, the incident light intensity is 1 sun, while the light intensity is much smaller when measuring EQE. When incident light intensity increases, the photophysics process inside the devices may perform differently. For example, certain defect levels that cause non-radiative recombination or lead to lower extraction efficiencies may simply get saturated at higher light intensities  (Nat. Commun., 2023, 14, 5445) . This could be one of the reasons for a higher photocurrent extracted from JV curves than integrated photocurrents from EQE. 
 "Arguably, improvement in photovoltaic performance compared to what has been reported previously in  In this manuscript, we have not emphasized or claimed the high short circuit current (26.6 mA/cm 2 ) we measured for the best devices, we reported the certificated efficiency of 26.0% with the certificated parameters. We hope the Reviewer could understand this situation. 
 Importantly, the stability data presented are inadequate. The authors again ignored the need to perform additional operational stability tests, including humidity, and UV irradiation. The justification given is not reasonable.  Our response: Thanks the Reviewer's very good suggestions. We have additionally performed the humidity and UV irradiation stability tests of the device (Figs.  R3  and R4 ). We have supplemented the test results in our revised manuscript. Developing better encapsulation and effective ultraviolet filter technologies could further improve device stability, which is a more technical rather than scientific problem. After all, the keynote of our work mainly focused on the world record level efficiency rather than stability and we will continuously study the stability of perovskite solar cells in our following researches more specifically. We could further improve the device stability in the future.   Fig Fig. R1 | XRD results of PPAI-tBBAI blended layer deposited on glass substrate. 
 Fig Fig. R2 | I-V curves of PPAI and PPAI-tBBAI film based on ITO/passivation layer/Au structure. 
 Fig. 7c-d in revised manuscript) indicate the fully filling of iodine vacancies at perovskite surface, which should bring the best defect passivation function (Nat. 
 photocurrents exceeding 26.6 mA/cm2 are documented in the SI, yet the authors simply avoided giving any explanation by stating a figure of 26 mA/cm2 in their response. Simply citing a reference doesn't solve the problem related to the disagreement between the integrated photocurrents from EQE and those extracted from JV curves." Our response: As we have replied in question 1 for the Reviewer's , we believe the efficiency improvement in this manuscript is significant compared with our 
 Fig. R3 | R3 Fig. R3 | Efficiency tracking of target device in ambient atmosphere at a relative humidity (RH) of 60±5%. 
 Fig. R4 | R4 Fig. R4 | Efficiency tracking of target device in a N2 atmosphere under continuous ultraviolet irradiation (395 nm, 600 mW/cm 2 ).
Paper #: 7638_4
Title: Enhanced charge carrier transport and defects mitigation of passivation layer for efficient perovskite solar cells

Surface passivation has been developed as an effective strategy to reduce trapstate density and suppress non-radiation recombination process in perovskite solar cells. However, passivation agents usually own poor conductivity and hold negative impact on the charge carrier transport in device. Here, we report a binary and synergistical post-treatment method by blending 4-tert-butylbenzylammonium iodide with phenylpropylammonium iodide and spincoating on perovskite surface to form passivation layer. The binary and synergistical post-treated films show enhanced crystallinity and improved molecular packing as well as better energy band alignment, benefiting for the hole extraction and transfer. Moreover, the surface defects are further passivated compared with unary passivation. Based on the strategy, a recordcertified quasi-steady power conversion efficiency of 26.0% perovskite solar cells is achieved. The devices could maintain 81% of initial efficiency after 450 h maximum power point tracking. The last decade has seen the incredible development of perovskite solar cells (PSCs)  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8]  , with the reported highest certified power conversion efficiency (PCE) approaching 26%  9  based on composition engineering  8, [10] [11] [12] [13]  , crystal growth modulation  14, 15  and surface passivation  5, 16, 17  , which demonstrates nearly the same level as commercial crystalline silicon solar cells  18  . Among these strategies, surface passivation is becoming the last but crucial for fabricating PSCs with excellent performances  19  . In our previous work, phenethylammonium iodide (PEAI) was applied onto the surface of perovskite film to reduce the defect density and suppress the nonradiative recombination of holes and electrons  5  . Two-dimensional (2D) perovskite  20, 21  , inorganic compound  22, 23  and polymer  24  were reported as passivation agents as well. Those materials usually show low conductivity, which could impede the charge transfer in devices, even though the passivation layers were normally ultrathin. This should be one of the reasons why fill factor (FF) increased at a very slow rate in the PCE development process compared with short-circuit current density (J SC ) and open-circuit voltage (V OC ) and lags behind the Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) limit value  25, 26  . Considering the trade-off between defect passivation and charge transport, a passivation material holding ability to extract and transmit charge carriers efficiently should be developed. Sargent et al. reported a series of semiconducting polymer to replace the conventional insulator-based passivation agent and the flat-band alignment enabled a better charge transport ability with a FF as high as 83% achieved on PSC  27  . White et al. modified the passivation layer distribution and built charge transport pathways inside the passivation layer by introducing the nanopatterned electron transport layer, thus a FF reaching 83.9% could be realized thanks to the improved charge transport process  28  . In this work, we propose a mixed organic halide salt system for binary and synergistical post-treatment (BSPT) of RbCl-doped FAPbI 3 (FA: HC(NH 2 ) 2 ). Specifically, we blended 4-tert-butylphenylmethylammonium iodide (tBBAI)  29  with phenylpropylammonium iodide (PPAI)  30  in isopropanol (IPA), and the solution was spin-coated onto the perovskite surface for BSPT. Previously, some groups have reported similar combined passivants strategy and mainly focused on the nonradiative recombination loss reduction effect referring to the decreased defect state density  [31] [32] [33]  . We observed that surface defects were further suppressed in our BSPT films compared with PPAI unary passivation as well. More importantly, the crystallinity of passivation layer was prominently strengthened, and the molecular configuration with more ordered packing was achieved through BSPT method, which benefitted the hole transfer from perovskite to HTL. An accelerating electrical field was formed from perovskite to passivation layer, and the energy level of perovskite was more suitable for HTL after BSPT, facilitating the hole extraction. As a result, we achieved a certified 26.0% PCE on normal (n-i-p) planar PSCs. The devices could maintain 81% of the original PCE after 450 h maximum power point (MPP) tracking. 
 Results 
 Crystallization quality and molecular packing The perovskite film was deposited through a modified two-step method according to our previous report  8  . PPAI, tBBAI or the mixed were dissolved directly in IPA, and the precursor solution was spin-coated on perovskite film without further annealing. The device structure employed in our research and the molecular configuration of PPAI and tBBAI are schematically illustrated in Fig.  1a . The complete device fabrication process is diagrammed in Supplementary Fig.  1 . We first implemented grazing incident X-ray diffraction (GIXRD) characterization to detect the surface crystallization condition (Fig. 1b The interaction energy in the PPAI unary and PPAI-tBBAI blended film according to AA-MD simulation results. Sum (Blend) refers to the total interaction energy between all molecules in the BSPT film. i Possible energy band structure and hole transfer mechanism of perovskite with BSPT. The HOMO level of Spiro-OMeTAD is drawn from our previous report  75  . and Supplementary Fig.  2 ). The post-treatment of perovskite film was mainly reflected on the new diffraction peaks in the small angle region, while diffraction peaks corresponding to perovskite lattice planes remained virtually the same, implying that the surface treatment held little effect on perovskite. For PPAI unary treatment, a new peak located at 4.76°was observed. A tiny peak of 4.42°emerged on tBBAI unary treated film, coherent with previous report  34  . When we mixed tBBAI with PPAI and applied BSPT strategy on perovskite film, a new peak located at 4.55°appeared, which fell into the region between 4.42°and 4.76°. We believed that the phenomenon could be explained on the basis of Vegard law, referring to a linear variation of crystal lattice constant when molecular with different size dissolved together. When depositing a single BSPT layer on glass substrate, the diffraction peak at approximately 4.55°could still be observed (Supplementary Fig.  3 ), indicating that the BSPT layer generally exists in the intrinsic mode when deposited on perovskite surface rather than reacting with perovskite. We further compared the GIXRD peak positions of BSPT perovskite films with different weight ratios between tBBAI and PPAI (Supplementary Fig.  4 ). We could see from the graph that when tBBAI occupied a larger concentration part, the low-angle diffraction peak was smaller and when PPAI occupied a larger concentration part, the low-angle diffraction peak turned to be larger, which fitted well with the Vegard law. Thus, the new peak after BSPT could indicate a full fusion of the two organic halide salt rather than physical blend. We also noticed that the diffraction intensity at 4.55°significantly enhanced compared with the diffraction intensity at 4.76°in PPAI unary passivation condition. Since the diffraction intensity at 4.42°was weak on tBBAI unary post-treatment film, it could be safe to conclude that the strong intensity signal at 4.55°was indeed due to the improved crystallinity of passivation layer when tBBAI was added into PPAI rather than simply concentration increase, which should be conducive to charge carrier transport process. The I-V measurements of the passivation layers confirmed the better charge transport property of BSPT layer (Supplementary Fig.  5 ). Conventional X-ray diffraction (C-XRD) results (Fig.  1c  and Supplementary Fig.  6 ) also confirm this finding. To investigate the crystallization orientation of passivation layer, we further performed grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) measurements  35  (Fig.  1d-f ). We could calculate that the scattering wave vector q was 3.39 nm -1 and 3.24 nm -1 for the characteristic diffraction peaks in PPAI unary and BSPT conditions, respectively. The corresponding Bragg scattering spots are pointed out using the red arrows in Fig.  1e, f . The Bragg spot along q z is indicative of a parallel orientation relative to the substrate  36, 37  . We inferred that the passivation agents could grow in a layer-by-layer structure mode on the perovskite film and the π-π bonding (large π bond) in the phenyl functional group of the passivation agents could facilitate the charge transfer along the vertical orientation. For BSPT condition, the stronger Bragg spot signal intensity could imply a more parallel molecular orientation relative to the substrate and the more ordered packing situation would be beneficial for charge transport process  38  . The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was applied to detect the surface state of perovskite before and after post-treatment (Supplementary Fig.  7 ). In the C 1s core-level energy spectra, the much more intense peak corresponding to C-C bonds after BSPT could be attributed to the large total concentration of passivators, which manifested that both tBBAI and PPAI remained on the surface of perovskite in the BSPT case. The C=O bonds were mostly eliminated after post-treatment, consistent with previous report  5  . The π-π bonding signal was from the phenyl functional group in passivation agent and the stronger signal intensity in BSPT film may imply an improved charge carrier transport process, which proved the GIWAXS results. From Pb 4f and I 3d core-level energy spectra, we could calculate the Pb:I ratio of each condition. The highest Pb:I ratio in BSPT sample could indicate the full filling of iodine vacancies at perovskite surface, which should bring the best defect passivation function  5  . To uncover the interaction between tBBAI and PPAI as well as the final molecular packing configuration of BSPT, all-atom molecular dynamics (AA-MD) simulation was performed  [39] [40] [41]  . Calculation details can be found in the "Methods" part. For a quantitative analysis, the radial distribution function (RDF, g(r)) of partial centroids between the center of mass (COM) was plotted, which measures the probability of finding a particle at a certain distance from a reference particle. A higher g(r) peak signifies a greater packing density at a specific distance. As shown in Fig.  1g , the intensity of the first peak of g(r) for PPAI in the PPAI unary film localized at the distance of 3.0 Å was significantly lower than that between PPAI and tBBAI in the blended film, thus the packing patterns between PPAI and tBBAI in the mixed film were more dominant than between PPAI and PPAI in the PPAI unary film. This could indicate that a more structured molecular packing system emerged between PPAI and tBBAI in the blended film than in the PPAI unary film, in accordance with the stronger diffraction peak signal from XRD measurement and the stronger Bragg spot signal along q z from GIWAXS measurement shown in BSPT condition than PPAI unary post-treatment condition. Additionally, the peak intensity of g(r) for PPAI in the blended film was less pronounced than in the pure PPAI film, as the peak distance expanded to 3.6 Å in the mixed film. This suggested that the packing patterns of PPAI in the unary film were superseded by those between PPAI and tBBAI in the blended film. The result could explain the XRD diffraction peak angle shift after adding tBBAI into PPAI when applying BSPT strategy. The interaction energy data was also gathered in the unary and blended film. Interestingly, after adding the tBBAI molecules, the interaction energy between PPAI molecules reduced in the mixed film compared with that in the PPAI unary film. Most importantly, the interaction between PPAI and tBBAI was stronger than that between PPAI and PPAI in the mixed film, suggesting that PPAI may prefer to interact with tBBAI to create an ordered pattern in the blended situation (Fig.  1h ), which further proved aforementioned outcomes. The molecular conformation in the film containing both PPAI and tBBAI was extracted from the AA-MD trajectories, showing that PPAI molecules could pack well with tBBAI (Supplementary Fig.  8a ). Besides, we calculated the distribution of angles between the PPAI benzene plane and tail (Supplementary Fig.  8b ) and fitted the data with a Gaussian function. It is worth noting that the peak angle slightly increased to 75.4 o after adding tBBAI, which was slightly lower when the tBBAI was not present, implying that the PPAI molecules mixed with tBBAI became denser and may be beneficial for the charge transport process (Supplementary Fig.  8c, d ). The above theoretical and experimental results suggest that the improved charge transport process could be thanks to the enhanced crystallization quality, ordered molecular orientation and improved molecular packing in BSPT layer, which is a novel interesting insight compared with other combined passivants literatures  [31] [32] [33]  . 
 Energy level alignment and surface morphology Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) was utilized to confirm the energy band structure of perovskite with and without posttreatment (Supplementary Fig.  9a, b ). After PPAI unary post-treatment, the work function (W F ) of perovskite surface was uplifted from -4.67 eV to -4.23 eV (minus sign represents relative to vacuum energy level), while BSPT elevated the W F to an even higher value of -3.45 eV. The upshifted W F after post-treatment offered a more negative charged surface, which could induce a dipole with a built-in electrical field oriented from perovskite to passivation layer, accelerating the hole transport and blocking electron  42  . Besides, both PPAI unary posttreatment and BSPT provided an intermediate HOMO energy level between active layer and HTL, revealing a gradient alteration property favorable for hole extraction  43  . Moreover, BSPT perovskite surface held a much smaller HOMO level gap to Spiro-OMeTAD (0.13 eV) than PPAI unary post-treated perovskite (0.65 eV), which could ameliorate hole extraction to HTL and avoid hole accumulation at the interface  44  (Fig.  1i  and Supplementary Fig.  9c, d ). We also employed Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) to detect the surface potential distribution of perovskite films with distinct post-treatments (Supplementary Fig.  10a-c ). BSPT sample owned a rather flat CPD distribution, while neat and PPAI unary post-treated sample possessed a rougher distribution with a clearer grain boundary. The evenly distributed CPD (Supplementary Fig.  10d ) could probably induce a better physical contact and energy band alignment between perovskite and HTL, conducive for hole transfer and extraction. The higher average CPD values for BSPT and PPAI-treated perovskite film than pristine perovskite film were consistent with the upshifted work function revealed by UPS results  45  . We carried out top-view scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) to depict the surface morphology of neat perovskite film or perovskite film with PPAI unary post-treatment or perovskite film with BSPT. From SEM results (Supplementary Fig.  11 ), we found out that PPAI unary post-treatment could not entirely cover the perovskite surface, leaving some white dots and pinholes. The white dots may be attributed to the accumulation of PPAI at some local part, and the pinholes could be the lack of coverage at some local part due to the accumulation distribution mode of PPAI. Pinholes could be commonly found in unary organic halide salt post-treatment situations  5  . The pinholes could act as tunneling channels for charge carriers. In contrast, BSPT strategy led to a well-covered and uniform surface, which should provide a better post-treatment effect. Since the charge carrier transport ability has been effectively improved, the charge carriers could be transferred even without those pinholes observed in PPAI unary condition as tunneling channels. AFM results further depicted surface height fluctuation of samples and were mapped in a three-dimensional (3D) model (Fig.  2a-c ). Although both showed smaller roughness than pristine perovskite (Ra = 22.7 nm), BSPT perovskite film could be even smoother (Ra = 9.76 nm) than PPAI unary post-treated perovskite film (Ra = 17.8 nm). We inferred that the BSPT layer should grow in a similar way as PEAI we reported before  5  , which could fill into the valleys of rough perovskite surface. The higher total concentration of BSPT layer than unary PPAI and tBBAI could lead to a more adequate filling to the valleys, which should be the reasons behind the substantial alteration in roughness following our BSPT method. We supposed that the tert-butyl group in tBBAI may also act as a framework to disperse the passivator more homogeneously. A more uniform and smoother surface could avoid the direct contact between perovskite film and electrode, generating less leakage current. 
 Surface defect density characterization Surface defects are prone to trap charge carriers, playing the role of nonradiative recombination center and holding negative impact on the charge transport process  19  . We used a 520 nm wavelength light to excite the film and observed a twofold steady-state photoluminescence (ssPL) intensity on the BSPT sample to PPAI unary posttreated sample, both showing obviously stronger signal than pristine perovskite (Fig.  2d ). We also conducted the photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) tests and the variation trends of PLQY values were in accordance with the ssPL results (Supplementary Fig.  12 ). The results could provide evidence for the lowest surface defect density after BSPT and the non-radiation recombination loss was effectively reduced. The wavelength corresponding to the maximum PL intensity (λ max ) showed negligible variation for all three samples, identical to the ignorable change on cutoff edges of ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectra and Tauc plots (Supplementary Fig.  13 ), which was reasonable since the perovskite composition kept the same. For timeresolved PL (TRPL) testing, we operated a 375 nm laser to excite the samples and detected the PL intensity at λ max as a function of time after removing the laser. The TRPL lifetime of BSPT sample was calculated as 6.36 μs, nearly doubled the PPAI unary treated sample (3.46 μs) and even eight times longer than pristine perovskite film (0.81 μs) (Fig.  2e ), which could be explained by fewer recombination centers after BSPT, demonstrating a better passivation function of the binary agents system than unary agent  [46] [47] [48]  . We further measured transient reflection spectroscopy (TRS) of perovskite films with different post-treatment (Fig.  2f ). When using a pump light with a long wavelength (i.e., low photon energy, 700 nm) to excite the film, the BSPT perovskite film possessed an obviously slower surface carrier decay. Since the pump light of long wavelength creates small carrier concentration gradient and mainly reflects surface condition, it could be safely concluded that BSPT decreases the surface recombination rate of perovskite film  49, 50  . BSPT strategy offered the passivation layer a better charge transport property, which allowed a higher total solution concentration than the unary passivation conditions, inducing a better passivation effect. To study the distribution of surface defects, we also mapped the PL intensity of the samples in a 15 × 15 μm area (Fig.  2g-i ). The BSPT perovskite film possessed obviously more uniform and larger PL intensity, implying that the surface defects could be homogenously suppressed over the film. This could be attributed to the better coverage of passivation agents on perovskite through BSPT, which was in accordance with the AFM results. 
 Device performance and characterizations Encouraged by the better crystallization quality, enhanced hole extraction ability and more effective passivation through BSPT of perovskite surface, we fabricated PSCs based on a device structure of FTO/SnO 2 /perovskite/passivation layer/Spiro-OMeTAD/Au (FTO, fluorine-doped tin oxide; Spiro-OMeTAD, 2,2′,7,7′-Tetrakis[N,N-di (4-methoxyphenyl)amino]-9,9′-spirobifluorene; Au, gold) (Fig.  1a  and Supplementary Fig.  14 ). We set devices passivated by unary PPAI (10 mg/mL) as our control samples and devices with BSPT as target samples. To optimize the best tBBAI mixing concentration, we compared performances of devices with BSPT layers containing 10 mg/mL PPAI and different tBBAI concentrations (Supplementary Fig.  15  and Supplementary Table  1 ); 10 mg/mL tBBAI mixed with 10 mg/mL PPAI was confirmed to be the optimal BSPT concentration condition and all target samples were treated under such concentration. To demonstrate the reproductivity of the devices, we each prepared 25 samples for control and target condition and plotted the PCE distributions as well as the parameters (V OC , J SC and FF) distributions for the two device categories (Fig.  3a ). The PCE advancement after BSPT was primarily owe to the dramatic improvement of FF, which should be ascribed to the better hole extraction and transfer ability. An obvious decreased series resistance was also observed, implying a more fluent charge carrier transport channel after applying BSPT strategy (Supplementary Fig.  16 ), which is in accordance with previous result (Supplementary Fig.  5 ). The V OC was increased as well, which should be the result of suppressed charge recombination process at perovskite surface. Note that the V OC of control devices was already extremely high (~1.18 V) and fairly close to S-Q limit, the tiny growth on V OC of target devices (~0.01 V) was still inspiring. The J SC was virtually the same since the surface layer was unable to penetrate deep inside the perovskite bulk phase and influence the composition. The best target device we have fabricated showed a PCE of 26.75% tested in our own laboratory (Supplementary Fig.  17  and Supplementary Table  2 ). Such device showed negligible hysteresis between reverse and forward sweep (Fig.  3b  and Supplementary Table  3 ) and exhibited steady power output of 26.1% under a bias of 1.04 V for 600 s (Fig.  3c ). Compared with a typical control device (Supplementary Fig.  18  and Supplementary Table  4 ), V OC and FF of target device in both reverse and forward sweep were enhanced (Supplementary Table  3 ). The integrated current density calculated from the external quantum efficiency (EQE) data was in agreement with the J SC collected from the J-V measurement under solar simulator (Fig.  3d ). We sent our best device to Japan Electrical Safety & Environment Technology Laboratories (JET) for accredited certification. A certified quasi-stabilized PCE of 26.0% with a V OC of 1.19 V, J SC of 26.00 mA cm -2 and FF of 84% was obtained (Supplementary Fig.  19a ), corresponding to 83.4%, 95%, 94.1% and 93.2% of S-Q limit respectively  51  (Fig.  3e ). When comparing with other high-efficiency normal structure PSCs reported (certified PCE > 25%) 6-9,13,52 , we found that our device possessing the highest PCE/PCE SQ value (Supplementary Fig.  20  and Supplementary Table  5 ), suggesting an extremely ideal charge carrier management during device operation process. Our result was collected both in the best research-cell efficiencies chart published by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in USA 53 (Supplementary Fig.  19b ) and solar cell efficiency tables published by Green et al.  54  as the world record. Operational stability is a crucial issue for the future commercialization of PSCs. We tracked the MPP output of the unencapsulated devices under continuous 1 Sun illumination (AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm -2 ) in a nitrogen-filled atmosphere at 50 ± 5 °C without active cooling (Fig.  3f ). The target device could maintain 81% of its initial PCE after 450 h continuous output, at the same level with the high-efficient normal structure PSCs 6,13 , while the control device degraded to 78% of its initial PCE. We realize that our operational stability still lags behind commercial demand, which is still a challenge for normal structure with Spiro-OMeTAD as the hole transport layer. Developing a more stable HTL material to replace Spiro-OMeTAD could be a route to further promote device stability  55, 56  . Besides, constructing interlayer to suppress ion migration process should also benefit the improvement of device stability. Replacing organic functional layer with more stable inorganic material could also be an effective method to enhance device stability. We also conducted thermal stability tests for target device (Supplementary Fig.  21 ). From the results, we could see that at the first 50 h, the PCE already degraded rapidly, which could be attributed to the formation of low-dimensional perovskite on the 3D perovskite surface 5 (Supplementary Fig.  22 ). Therefore, a more thermally stable passivation agent should be explored in our future work. Humidity and ultraviolet irradiation stability tests for target device were also included  (Supplementary Figs. 23, 24). Developing better encapsulation and effective ultraviolet filter technologies could further improve device stability. We further conducted a series of characterizations based on the complete devices to understand the charge carrier dynamics and recombination mechanism more comprehensively. We first tested the device performances under different light intensity and plotted the V OC variation trends to calculate the ideal factors from the fitting curves  57  . BSPT device showed an ideal factor of 1.09 which was extraordinarily close to 1 and among the smallest as we know, indicating a considerably suppressed Shockley-Read-Hall (SRH) recombination process, while the control device showed a larger value of 1.26 (Fig.  4a ). The J SC versus light intensity curves were also plotted under double logarithmic coordinate (Supplementary Fig.  25 ) and the linear relationship illustrated no obvious charge transport barrier in device  13  . We then applied Mott-Schottky method to measure the built-in voltage (V bi ) in device, which could reflect the charge separation and collection ability  58  . The capacitance-voltage (C-V) measurement was implemented and V bi was acquired from the intercept with x-axis in C -2 -V graph. The V bi of target device was 1.04 V, larger than 1.00 V of control device, implying BSPT could be beneficial for charge separation and collection (Fig.  4b ). To evaluate the trap density of states (tDOS), we measured the thermal admittance spectroscopy (TAS)  44, 59  , and the results showed that the defect density was obviously reduced in the deep-trap region (above 0.4 eV)  60  after BSPT, with the peak value decreasing from 1.84 × 10 17 cm -3 eV -1 to 7.3 × 10 16 cm -3 eV -1 , which could be helpful for the charge carrier dynamics (Fig.  4c ). The tDOS result offered quantitative evidence for the conclusion induced by PL result. Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) results (Supplementary Fig.  26 ) also confirmed the reduction of SRH recombination rate after BSPT with a larger recombination resistance fitted by the equivalent circuit (inset graph)  61  . We also carried out the I-V measurements under dark environment (Fig.  4d ), target device owned a reduced dark current compared with control device near zero voltage point, suggesting decreased electrical leakage channels. For target device, the lowest dark current was nearly located at the zero voltage point, declaring limited charge accumulation at the interfaces  62  . When applying higher forward voltage, the dark current of target device ascended more quickly, signifying better charge transport  63  . In order to study the device transient charge carrier dynamics, we conducted transient photocurrent (TPC) test and open-circuit voltage decay (OCVD) test. For TPC result, a faster photocurrent decay was observed on the target device, with a lifetime of merely 0.94 μs (Fig.  4e ), which further proved the quick charge extraction process due to superior charge transfer capacity after BSPT  64  . In OCVD test, a slower V OC decay process indicated a more balanced charge carrier transport through BSPT strategy (Fig.  4f )  65  . A photogenerated charge extraction by linearly increasing voltage (Photo-CELIV) measurement was executed to evaluate the global charge carrier mobilities of device (Supplementary Fig.  27 ). A mobility value of 2.05 × 10 -3 cm 2 V -1 s -1 was obtained from the target device, which was larger than the control device with 1.90 × 10 -3 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , indicating that the BSPT indeed facilitated the charge carrier transport in device  66  . Those device characterization results offered adequate evidence for a suppressed charge carrier recombination process as well as a more efficient charge carrier transport process after BSPT, which should be the main reasons for the improvement on both V OC and FF. In general, we have proposed a BSPT strategy to improve the charge carrier transport property and defect suppression function of passivation layer. Specifically, a better crystallization quality and a more ordered molecular packing pattern of passivation layer were achieved with a more suitable energy band alignment, inducing a better hole extraction and transfer ability. Moreover, BSPT strategy further diminished surface trap-state density on the basis of PPAI unary passivation. As a result, a certified PCE as high as 26.0% was realized on our PSCs. The device could also maintain 81% of its original PCE after 450 h MPP tracking. Our work provides an effective method to passivate surface defects without sacrificing charge carrier transport ability, which should also be enlightening in the fields of other perovskite semiconductor optoelectronic devices  67  . 
 Methods 
 Materials SnO 2 colloid precursor (tin (IV) oxide, 15% in H 2 O colloidal dispersion) was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Dimethylformamide (DMF), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), chlorobenzene (CB), isopropanol (IPA), lead iodide (PbI 2 ), rubidium chloride (RbCl), bis(trifluoromethane)sulfonimide lithium salt (Li-TFSI), acetonitrile and 4-tert-butylpyridine (tBP) were all purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Formamidinium iodide (FAI), methylammonium chloride (MACl), 4-tert-butylphenylmethylammonium iodide (tBuPMAI/tBBAI), phenylpropylammonium iodide (PPAI), Tris(2-(1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-4-tert-butylpyridine)-cobalt(III)Tris(bis(trifluorome thylsulfonyl)imide) (FK209), 2,2′,7,7′-Tetrakis[N,N-di(4-methoxyphenyl) amino]-9,9′-spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD) and poly[bis(4-phenyl) (2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA) were all purchased from Xi'an Yuri Solar Co., Ltd in China. 4-Isopropyl-4'-methyldiphenyliodonium Tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl) borate (TPFB) was purchased from TCI. Except for SnO 2 colloid precursor stored in ambient air, all the materials are stored in the nitrogen-filled glove box to avoid the water and oxygen in air. 
 Perovskite solar cells fabrication FTO glass was cleaned by sequentially washing with detergent, deionized water (DI), acetone and isopropanol (IPA). Before use, the FTO glass substrate was cleaned with ultraviolet ozone for 10 min. Then the substrate was spin-coated with a thin layer of SnO 2 nanoparticle film (2.67%, diluted by DI) at 4000 r.p.m. for 30 s, and annealed in ambient air at 150 °C for 30 min. It is better to clean the SnO 2 substrate with ultraviolet ozone for 10 min to improve the surface wetting. After that, the substrate was transferred into a nitrogen-filled glove box to finish the device fabrication process. A two-step method was applied to deposit the perovskite film. First, 1.5 M PbI 2 doped with 5 mol% RbCl in DMF:DMSO (9:1) solvent was spin-coated onto SnO 2 at 1500 r.p.m for 30 s, annealed at 70 °C for 1 min, and then cooled to room temperature. Second, a solution of FAI: MACl (90 mg: 9-18 mg in 1 ml IPA) was spin-coated onto the PbI 2 film at 1800 r.p.m. for 30 s to form perovskite precursor film. Afterward, the perovskite precursor film was taken out from the nitrogen-filled glove box to ambient air for thermal annealing at 150 °C for 15 min in humidity conditions (30-40% relative humidity (RH)) to finally become α-phase FAPbI 3 perovskite. It must be noted that humidity is very critical for achieving high crystallinity of perovskite films and high performance of devices. From our previous results, the RH should be controlled at around 30-40%, lower humidity will not promote the perovskite growth and high humidity could lead to perovskite decomposition. Humidifier or dehumidifier is usually used for keeping the RH at around 30-40% in the open ambient air environment. After perovskite formation, the samples were transferred back to the nitrogen-filled glove box for further processing. For control samples, 10 mg/mL PPAI was dissolved in IPA and spin-coated onto the perovskite surface at a spin rate of 5000 r.p.m. without any further annealing process. For target samples, 10 mg/mL PPAI added with 10 mg/mL tBBAI were dissolved in IPA together and spin-coated onto the perovskite surface at a spin rate of 5000 r.p.m. without any further annealing process to form BSPT layer. To optimize the tBBAI concentration, 5, 7.5, 15 mg/mL tBBAI was also tried within the solution. When depositing the HTL, 72.3 mg/mL Spiro-OMeTAD solution, which consisted of 35 μL Li-TFSI stock solution (260 mg Li-TFSI in 1 mL acetonitrile), 30 μL tBP and 3.59 μL FK209 stock solution (759.81 mg FK209 in 1 mL acetonitrile) in 1 mL chlorobenzene was spin-coated at 1500 r.p.m. for 30 s. The devices without electrode were put in a drying cabinet (25 °C, 1% RH) for overnight oxidation of Spiro-OMeTAD to enhance the conductivity. For the device thermal stability test, PTAA doped with TPFB was used to replace spiro-OMeTAD as the hole transport layer. The concentration of PTAA was 40 mg/mL and the weight ratio of PTAA/TPFB was 10:1.5. The PTAA was deposited on top of the perovskite layer at a spin rate of 2000 r.p.m. for 30 s. Finally, 80 nm of Au film was thermally evaporated as a counter electrode using a shadow mask. The device size areas were 0.108 cm 2 . When measuring J-V and EQE, a 0.07461 cm 2 non-reflective mask was used to define the accurate active cell area. 
 Material characterization The XRD patterns of the perovskite films were characterized on a D8 ADVANCE system (Bruker Nano Inc.) using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.5405 Å) as the X-ray source. For conventional XRD, a θ-2θ model was used. For the GIXRD measurement, the incident angle was 2.0°. The GIWAXS was performed at BL17B1 beamline of SSRF using the X-ray energy of 10 KeV. Two-dimensional patterns were acquired by a PLATUS 2M detector mounted vertically at a distance ~240 mm from the sample with a grazing-incidence angle of 0.2°or 0.4°and an exposure time of 20 s. XPS was performed on a Thermo Scientific ESCALab 250Xi using 200 W monochromated Al Kα (1486.6 eV) radiation. A 500 μm X-ray spot was used for XPS analysis. The base pressure in the analysis chamber was about 3 × 10 -10 mbar. UPS was also carried out on a Thermo Scientific ESCALab 250Xi, with the HeI (21.22 eV) emission line employed for excitation. AFM and KPFM were performed using a Bruker Dimension Icon (Bruker Nano Inc.) and the scan rate was 0.5 Hz. KPFM measurements were performed in a tapping-contact mode in dark conditions. The SEM images were acquired using a field-emission scanning electron microscope (FEI NanoSEM650), in which an electron beam was accelerated at 500 V to 30 kV, enabling operation at a variety of currents. Absorption spectra were obtained using an ultraviolet-visible spectrometer (Cary 5000). Steady-state PL and TRPL spectra were measured by an FLS1000 spectrometer. During the steady-state PL intensity tests, we kept the slit bandwidth of the incident 520 nm light at 1.20 nm for all three conditions. In this way, we could excite the film sample at the same light power and make the steady-state PL intensity comparable between the samples. The incident 520 nm wavelength light was acquired from a 450 W xenon lamp and the light power density illuminated at the samples was around 3.5 mW/cm 2 . With a 0.05 cm 2 area of light irradiation spot, we could calculate the light power of the 520 nm wavelength light is about 175 μW. For TRPL test, the samples were excited by a diode laser of 375 nm wavelength. For PLQY test, the samples were excited by a 368 nm light from a light-emitting diode and the PLQYs were recorded by a commercialized PLQY measurement system (LQE-50-PL) from Enlitech. For the PL mapping, a laser scanning confocal microscope equipped with a 532 nm pulse laser was used. The mapping area was set to be 15 × 15 μm. The laser source was set to 10 nW range on the sample for measurement. TRS measurements were conducted in a similar way with literature  49  . A Ti:sapphire laser amplifier (PHAROS-20W) can generate 1028 nm pulse. A branch of fundamental beam was transferred into an optical parametric amplifier (TP-OR-ORPHEUS-HP) to produce monochromatic pump pulses with different wavelengths. Another branch of beam was attenuated and focused into sapphire crystals to generate the broadband probe pulses in the visible regions. The time delay between the pump and probe pulses was controlled by a motorized translation stage. The reflected probe pulses were sent into the visible spectrometers. 
 Device characterization The I-V characteristics of PPAI and BSPT layer were obtained using a Keithley 2400 Source Meter based on ITO/passivation layer/Au structure with the voltage step as 0.1 V. The J-V characteristics of the photovoltaic cells were obtained using a Keithley 2400 Source Meter under simulated 1 Sun AM 1.5G illumination (100 mW cm -2 ) with a solar simulator (Enlitech, SS-F5-3A) and the light intensity was calibrated by means of a KG-5 Si photodiode. The J-V measurements were carried out in ambient air at 25 °C. The devices were measured both in reverse scan (1.2 V → 0 V, step 0.02 V) and forward scan (0 V → 1.2 V, step 0.02 V). We sent the best devices to an accredited laboratory (JET, Japan) for certification. The operational stability tracking tests were conducted under a 1 Sun white light-emitting diode lamp illumination continuously in a nitrogen-filled glove box at 50 ± 5 °C without active cooling while the unencapsulated PSCs were masked and placed on a homemade sample holder. During measurements, a fixed bias voltage was applied on the devices to retain the PSCs working at MPP and reverse scanned J-V curves were recorded every 60 min by Keithley 2635B Source Meter. The dark I-V measurements were carried out in a black box and tested by Keithley 6482 Source Meter to detect the dark current more precisely. The EQE was measured using an Enlitech EQE measurement system (QE-R3018). TPC measurements were conducted on a commercial apparatus (Arkeo, Cicci Research) based on a highspeed waveform generator that drives high-speed light-emitting diodes (5000 K). EIS, C-V, photo-CELIV and OCVD tests were measured by an all-in-one characterization platform (Paios Fluxim AG) in air conditions without encapsulation. The device structures are the same as the J-V test. For EIS tests, the measurement frequency ranged from 10 Hz to 10 MHz at open-circuit condition under dark environment. C-V measurements were carried out at fixed frequency of 100 kHz under dark environment. The depletion widths W were calculated as 80.0 nm and 84.3 nm for control and target device, respectively, based on the slopes of the Mott-Schottky curves and were applied in the TAS analysis further together with the V bi obtained from the intercepts. For photo-CELIV test, the delay time was set to 0 s, the light intensity was 100%, the light-pulse length was 5 ms and the sweep ramp rate was 100 V/ms. The mobility value μ could be calculated according to the following equation μ = 2d 2 3At max 2 × 1 1 + 0:36 4j j disp , in which d represents the perovskite film thickness, A refers to the ramp rate, t max is the time required to reach the current density peak, j disp stands for the displacement current density and Δj is the difference between the peak current density and the displacement current density  68  . The TAS measurements were performed on an Agilent E4980A precision Lenz-Capacitor-Resistance (LCR) meter in the dark at 300 K. The d.c. bias was fixed at 0 V and the amplitude of the a.c. bias was 20 mV. The scanning range of the a.c. frequency (f) was 1-2000 kHz. The tDOS (N t (Eω)) was calculated through the equation N t E ω À Á = À 1 qk B T ωdC dω V bi W , where q, k B , T, ω, C, W, V bi , N t and Eω are elementary charge, Boltzmann constant, temperature under Kelvin thermodynamic scale, angular frequency, specific capacitance, depletion width, build-in voltage, trap density of states and demarcation energy respectively  59  . The demarcation energy is defined based on the equation E ω = k B Tlnð 2β ρ N V ω Þ, where β ρ is capture coefficient of hole, N V is the effective density of states in the valence band. For FAPbI 3 perovskite, β ρ and N V are 10 -8 cm 3 /s and 2.524 × 10 19 cm -3 , respectively, according to literature  69  . Before each measurement, the system was self-calibrated under opencircuit and short-circuit conditions to compensate for any undesired signal from the instrument. 
 All-atom molecular dynamics simulation To uncover the impact of halide-based organic salts on the packing, allatom molecular dynamics (AA-MD) was performed using the GRO-MACS2021.2 package with the optimized potentials for liquid simulations-all atom (OPLS-AA) force field. The concentration used in the simulation (50 mg/mL) was higher than the concentration used in the experiment (10 mg/mL), due to the computational limitations of plenty of IPA molecules in cubic cells. For the BSPT condition, another model containing 200 PPAI, 182 tBBAI, and plenty of IPA molecules in 30 × 30 × 30 nm 3 cells was also built. In both cases, we periodically removed 100 IPA solvent molecules per 300 ps to investigate the impact of the introduction of tBBAI molecules on the kinetic of the PPAI-tBBAI blended film formation. The LINCS algorithm was applied to constrain the covalent bonds with H-atoms  70  . The time step of the simulations was 1.0 fs. All the simulations were performed in periodic boundary conditions. The pressure and temperature were controlled with the Parrinello-Rahman barostat coupled in 1 atm and the V-rescale thermostat  71, 72  . The cutoff of the nonbonded interactions was set to 12 Å. The particle mesh Ewald (PME) method was used to calculate the long-range electrostatic interactions  73  . The graphics and visualization analyses were processed by the Visual Molecular Dynamics (VMD) program  74  . 
 Reporting summary Further information on research design is available in the Nature Portfolio Reporting Summary linked to this article. Fig. 1 | 1 Fig. 1 | Device structure, film crystallization characterization and all-atom molecular dynamics simulation. a Diagram of PSC structure used in this study with molecular structure of PPAI and tBBAI. b GIXRD patterns at small angle region for pristine perovskite film, perovskite with PPAI, tBBAI and PPAI/tBBAI BSPT posttreatment. c Conventional XRD patterns at small angle region for pristine perovskite film, perovskite with PPAI, tBBAI and PPAI/tBBAI BSPT post-treatment, respectively. a.u. arbitrary units. d-f 2D GIWAXS patterns of pristine perovskite film, perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and perovskite with BSPT. g The radial distribution function (RDF) in the PPAI unary and PPAI-tBBAI blended film based on AA-MD simulation results. hThe interaction energy in the PPAI unary and PPAI-tBBAI blended film according to AA-MD simulation results. Sum (Blend) refers to the total interaction energy between all molecules in the BSPT film. i Possible energy band structure and hole transfer mechanism of perovskite with BSPT. The HOMO level of Spiro-OMeTAD is drawn from our previous report 75  . 
 Fig. 2 | 2 Fig. 2 | Surface morphology and photoluminescence properties of perovskite with different treatments. a-c 3D AFM mapping images of a pristine perovskite, b perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and c perovskite with BSPT, respectively. d Steady-state photoluminescence characterization of pristine perovskite, perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and perovskite with BSPT. e TRPL characterization of pristine perovskite, perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and perovskite with BSPT. f Transient reflection spectroscopy measurements of pristine perovskite, perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and perovskite with BSPT, respectively, using 700 nm pump light to excite the films. ΔR means change in reflection. g-i PL mapping patterns of g pristine perovskite film, h perovskite with PPAI unary post-treatment and i perovskite with BSPT. ssPL, TRPL, TRS and PL mapping characterization were carried out on glass/perovskite/passivation layer structure. a.u. arbitrary units. 
 Fig. 3 | 3 Fig. 3 | Device performances and stability testing. a Statistical distributions of V OC , J SC , FF and PCE values in a batch of 25 control devices and 25 target devices, respectively. b J-V curves of the champion target device under 1 Sun condition (100 mW/cm 2 ). Reverse and forward sweep are plotted together. c Steady power output of the champion target device for 600 s with a bias of 1.04 V. d EQE and integrated J SC of the champion target device. e The ratio of our certified results to S-Q limit values 51 . V OC , J SC , FF and PCE are listed respectively. f MPP tracking of unencapsulated control and target devices under continuous 1 Sun illumination in a N 2 atmosphere at a temperature of 50 ± 5 °C without active cooling. The initial PCE for control and target devices were 25.1% and 25.6% respectively. 
 Fig. 4 | 4 Fig. 4 | Device optoelectronic characterizations. a The V OC -light intensity relationship for control and target device. The ideal factors are presented beside the fitting curves. b Mott-Schottky curves of C-V measurement for control and target devices. The built-in voltages are presented beside the fitting curves. c TAS results for control and target devices. d I-V curves of control and target devices under dark environment. e TPC curves and fitting curves for control and target devices. The fitted lifetimes are presented beside the fitting curves. a.u. arbitrary units. f OCVD curves of control and target devices.
