Paper #: 18293_1
Title: Improved photoluminescence stability and defect passivation in SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 quantum dots under ambient conditions
Inorganic cesium lead halide perovskites have evoked wide popularity because of their excellent optoelectronic properties, high photoluminescence (PL) quantum yield (PLQY), and narrowband emission. Here, cesium lead bromide (CsPbBr 3 ) quantum dots (QDs) were synthesized via the ligand-assisted re-precipitation method. Post-synthesis treatment of CsPbBr 3 QDs using antimony tribromide improved the PL stability and optoelectronic properties of the QDs. In addition, the PLQY of the post-treated sample was enhanced to 91% via post-treatment, and the luminescence observed was maintained for 8 days. The post-synthesis treatment ensured defect passivation and improved the stability of CsPbBr 3 perovskite QDs. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy revealed the presence of more ordered, uniformsized CsPbBr 3 QDs after post-synthesis treatment, and the uniformity of the sample improved as the day passed. The formation of a mixed crystal phase was observed from X-ray diffraction in both as-synthesized, as well as post-treated QDs samples with the possibility of a polycrystalline nature in the post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs as per the selected area electron diffraction pattern. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra confirmed the presence of antimony and the possibility of defect passivation in the post-treated samples. These QDs can act as potential candidates in various optoelectronic applications such as photodetectors and light-emitting diodes due to their high PLQY and longer lifetime. K E Y W O R D S antimony tribromide post-treatment, caesium lead bromide quantum dots, ligand-assisted reprecipitation, photoluminescence, photoluminescence quantum yield 1 | INTRODUCTION Recently, there has been much interest in all inorganic cesium lead halide perovskite (CsPbBr 3 where X = Cl, Br, I) quantum dots (QDs) as active components for optoelectronic devices such as photodetectors [1-6], solar cells [7-9], light-emitting diodes [10-14] (LEDs), and display devices [15, 16]. High photoluminescence (PL) quantum yield (PLQY), size-tunable bandgap, narrow emission peak, and excellent colour purity are some of the unique features of cesium halide perovskites [17]. The halogen concentration (X À ) in CsPbX 3 perovskite QDs can be adjusted to change the emission colour, for example it is possible to use CsPbI 3 , CsPbBr 3 , and CsPbCl 3 QDs as the red ($1.7 eV), green ($2.4 eV), and blue ($3.0 eV) emitters, respectively [18]. The hot injection (HI) method [19] and ligand-assisted re-precipitation (LARP) [20] are the most popular methods for synthesizing halide perovskites. The HI method helps synthesize monodisperse CsPbX 3 Sruthi S and Swapnika Suresh contributed equally to this work.
nanocrystals (NCs), while the LARP method for room temperature synthesis exhibited PLQY up to 70% for MAPbBr 3 QDs. The size, composition, and dimension of the QDs can be controlled via these synthesis methods. A significant obstacle to the commercialization of solution-processable perovskite QDs is their chemical, thermal, and photoinstability, which is a major cause of their degradation when exposed to humidity, light, or high temperature  [21] . Lead halide perovskite QDs possess defects caused by distorted octahedra or vacancies that serve as locations for photo-generated charge carriers to create trap centres, resulting in low PLQY  [22] . As the majority of the defect states in CsPbBr 3 NCs are shallow defects, they exhibit better photoelectric properties and higher defect tolerance. However, the non-radiative recombination processes caused by defect states in the CsPbBr 3 NCs cannot be ignored; hence, nonradiative recombination must be eliminated or reduced to improve optoelectronic properties of CsPbBr 3 NCs  [22, 23] . The performance of the lead halide perovskites can be improved by defect passivation, composition engineering, doping, post-synthesis treatment, and surface ligand modification. The structural, optical, and electrical properties of lead halide perovskite QDs can be modulated by doping  [1] . CsPbCl 3 QDs with Ni 2+ doping have improved short-range lattice order that eliminates defect states, increasing the PLQY for the violet emission reaching up to 96.5%. Cu 2+ doping in CsPbCl 3 QDs has improved the surface passivation with high luminescence properties and PLQY ranging from 92% to 98% with blue colour emission by partial exchange of halide  [24] . According to Zou et al., replacing Pb 2+ with Mn 2+ increased the thermal stability of CsPbCl 3 QDs and the LED fabricated out of it possessed a higher external quantum efficiency (EQE) under ambient conditions  [25] . Brilliant green-emitting bromide-based perovskites (CsPbBr 3 QDs) stand out among other perovskite QDs due to the human eye's hypersensitivity to green light, which makes them ideal for backlight displays and green-emitting LEDs  [21] . Due to the inherent electronic transition of the dopant ions, Mn 2+ doping of CsPbBr 3 NCs creates a new emission band and can also enhance photostability and PL efficiency  [26, 27] . Recently, impurity doping in lead halide perovskite QDs with heterovalent dopants has improved the structural, optical, and electrical properties  [28] . Doping of Bi 3+ in CsPbBr 3 QDs showed that the energy difference between the acceptors and donor impurities helped in engineering interfacial charge transfer  [27] . With the use of Ce 3+ doping, the LEDs created using CsPbBr 3 NCs as the emitting layers demonstrated an increase in EQE from 1.6% to 4.4%  [27, 29] . The PLQY of Ce 3+ -doped CsPbBr 3 NCs increased to 2.88% in contrast with the native, undoped ones, resulting in a PLQY of up to 89%  [29] . In situ ytterbium (Yb 3+ )  [30]  doping into CsPbI 3 QDs resulted in the tendency to occupy Pb 2+ sites, resulting in the removal of Cs + and I À vacancies. The number of trap states and defects caused by surface and lattice vacancies was reduced, providing great potential in improving the PLQY, crystallinity, thermal stability, and transport of QDs  [1] . Doping aluminium (Al 3+ ) ion into CsPbBr 3 QDs using AlBr 3 resulted in extended bandgap and quantum confinement effects that gave rise to the desirable blue-shifted emission  [31] . When Sb 3+ ions were added to CsPbBr 3 QDs, the surface energy was successfully reduced, the lattice energy was enhanced, the defect states below the band gap were passivated, the PLQY of the blue emission was eventually increased to 73.8%, and the spectral stability was improved even at high solution temperatures (40-100 C)  [32] . Doping metal cations during QD synthesis is more difficult than the post-treatment technique, and might result in crystal structure changes with defects  [22, 32, 33] . Post-synthesis treatment is a simple method to enhance the optical and structural properties of the QDs  [34] . Post-treatment will help in the surface modification of the QD sample, which can aid in the enhancement of the photostability and PLQY of cesium lead halide perovskite QDs. Lead halide perovskite nanostructures with promising applications in optoelectronic devices will be given a new way to enhance their stability and optoelectronic properties using a sequential ligand post-treatment strategy for ligand exchange and a cationic ligand with high binding affinity  [35] . The halogen defect was treated with a ZnX 2 /hexane solution, eliminating all 'black dots', and a simple post-treatment approach improved their stability and optical properties  [36] . After a post-treatment procedure, the lack of a surface defect improved their stability, resulting in an increase in the PLQYs of CsPbCl 3 , CsPbBr 3 , and CsPbI 3 from 4%, 58%, and 63%, respectively, to 86%, 93%, and 95%  [35] . Post-synthesis treatment of nanocrystals helps in the improvement of PL efficiency. An enhancement of PLQY from 54% to 83% was found in CsPbBr 3 QDs via PbBr 2 post-treatment  [37] . A few studies have been reported on the long-term stability and enhancement of PLQY in CsPbBr 3 QDs. In this work, CsPbBr 3 QDs were synthesized via the LARP method at room temperature, and SbBr 3 post-treatment was performed to improve the optoelectronic properties. The properties of the post-treated and the as-synthesized QD samples were analyzed from Day 1 to Day 8 of the QD synthesis, and it was observed that the PLQY of the Sb 3+ post-treated samples increased with the increase in concentration  [38, 39] . Moreover, the PLQY was maintained for an extended period for post-treated samples, extending the future scope of post-treated QDs for optoelectronic applications.  
 | Chemicals Cesium bromide (CsBr, Sigma-Aldrich, 99.99%), lead(II) bromide (PbBr 2 , Sigma-Aldrich, ≥98%), antimony tribromide (SbBr 3 , Sigma-Aldrich, 97%), oleylamine (OAm, Sigma-Aldrich, 70%), oleic acid (OA, Spectrum), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF; Loba, 99%), and toluene (Loba, 99.5%). 
 | Preparation of CsPbBr 3 QDs In total, 0.3 mmol of CsBr and PbBr 2 were dissolved in 20 ml DMF under constant stirring for 30 min. As capping ligands, 1 ml of OA and 0.5 ml of OAm were added and then heated to 85 C under constant stirring for 1 h. Next, 0.5 ml of the completely dissolved precursor solution was rapidly injected into 25 ml of toluene under vigorous stirring. A yellowish-green colloidal solution of CsPbBr 3 QD solution was formed immediately. Hence, the QD solution was collected and kept for further analysis. 
 | Preparation of post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs Next, 0.1 mmol of SbBr 3 was dissolved in 10 ml toluene and kept for sonication. Here, 25, 50, 75, and 100 μl of the above-prepared solution were added to 5 ml of CsPbBr 3 QD solution separately. Figure  1a  shows the synthesis of CsPbBr 3 QDs via the LARP method, proceeded by SbBr 3 post-treatment. 
 | Characterization The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded using a Rigaku-   perovskite structure  [41, 42] . 
 | RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The morphologies of the as-synthesized and 50 μl SbBr 3 posttreated CsPbBr 3 QDs were examined using TEM and XRD analyses. Figure  6  shows the time-resolved PL (TRPL) spectra of the assynthesized and post-treated samples to determine the kinetics of exciton recombination. The obtained TRPL spectra were fitted with a bi-exponential function to determine the non-radiative recombination (τ 1 ) and radiative recombination (τ 2 ). With τ 1 , τ 2 as fitted lifetime components and corresponding weighted amplitudes A 1 and A 2 , the average lifetime (τ avg ) is computed as: τ avg ¼ A 1 τ 2 1 þ A 2 τ 2 2 A 1 τ 1 þ A 2 τ 2: Bi-exponential fitting was done on the observed TRPL spectra, which showed that the average lifetime had improved drastically from 17.05 ± 0.02 ns to 37.75 ± 0.01 ns for the as-synthesized and 50 μl Sb 3+ post-treated samples, respectively. However, the 100 μl Sb 3+ post-treated QD sample showed an intermediate decay lifetime of 37.46 ± 0.01 ns (Table  2 ). The improved lifespan in the post-treated samples is due to the non-radiative recombination. Doping a suitable quantity of Sb 3+ ions in CsPbBr 3 QDs resulted in a longer lifespan  [45] . Here, 50 μl Sb 3+ post-treated CsPbBr 3 QD samples exhibited the most improved lifetime compared with the 100 μl Sb 3+ posttreated CsPbBr 3 QD samples.  The Br 3d 3/2 and Br 3d 5/2 peaks and Pb 4f 5/2 and Pb 4f 7/2 peaks of Sb 3+ post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs were slightly shifted to higher binding energies (Table  S3 ). This illustrates that the addition of Sb Then, to check the stability against light, the QD solutions were exposed to UV light of wavelength 365 nm, continuously for 4 days ($100 h), and the PL spectra of the samples were analyzed before and after 4 days of exposure to the UV light (Figure  8a, b ). Apparently, the CsPbBr 3 QD solution started to degrade within the analysis period. However, the post-treated QDs retained their fluorescence, which is supported by the PL spectra after 4 days (Figure  8c ). Although there was a reduction of PL intensity for both the QD solutions, the rate of reduction in fluorescence was slow for the post-treated sample, indicating its enhanced stability after the treatment with SbBr 3 . Moreover, to check the temperature dependence on the stability of the QDs, the solutions were heated from 30 to 80 C, and PL spectra were taken immediately. Both the solutions followed the trend of reduction in PL intensity with an increase in temperature due to increased non-radiative recombination dominating over the radiative recombination rates  [13] . Figure  8d      2 | EXPERIMENTAL 2 . 1 | 221 Synthesis of CsPbBr 3 QDs 
 Ultima 4 4 photometer. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed using a PHI5000 Version Probe III Scanning XPS Microprobe. A HORIBA Fluorolog Fluorescence Spectrometer with Time Correlated Single Photon Counting (TCPSC)-Model-Fluorolog TCPSC 3 was used to calculate the fluorescence lifetime with 330 nm as the excitation wavelength. The fluorescence of the samples was analyzed using a UV cabinet (Model No. R/340/OB). 
 Figure Figure1ademonstrates the modified LARP approach for the synthesis of CsPbBr 3 QDs, followed by the SbBr 3 post-treatment procedure. 
 F Figure1b,c shows the UV-visible spectra of the as-synthesized and SbBr 3 post-treated (50 and 100 μl) CsPbBr 3 QDs on both Day 1 and Day 8 of synthesis. An absorbance of $516 nm was observed that confirmed the formation of CsPbBr 3 QDs [38] . As the concentration of post-treated Sb 3+ increased, there was a slight red shift in the excitonic peak of $1-3 nm40 and the bandgap of the samples decreased.A bandgap energy of $2.35 eV was observed for all the samples (FigureS1). FiguresS2a-hand S3a-h show the as-synthesized and SbBr 3 post-treated (25, 50, 75, and 100 μl) CsPbBr 3 QD samples and the corresponding PL spectra from Day 1 to Day 8. There was a decrease in PL in the as-synthesized sample as the day passed by, while the post-treated ones showed an increase in PL, and the luminescence was maintained from Day 1 to Day 8 of analysis [40]. The comparison PL spectra of Day 1 versus Day 8 of the as-synthesized and SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs are shown in Figure 2a-e. An 
 Figure Figure3a,b,d,eshows the TEM and HR-TEM images of the assynthesized CsPbBr 3 QDs on Day 1 and Day 8 of synthesis, respectively. From HR-TEM, a highly crystalline QD formation was observed for both samples. On Day 1 of the synthesis of the assynthesized sample, the d-spacing was 0.58 nm, which corresponds to the (100) plane, and the 0.42 nm d-spacing value was calculated 
 F Figures S7 and S8. 
 Figure Figure 7a-g presents XPS spectra displaying the binding energies of as-synthesized QD samples and 50 μl of Sb 3+ post-treated QD samples, and Figure S8a-d illustrates XPS spectra of QD samples treated with 100 μl of Sb 3+ . All samples confirmed the presence of Cs, Pb, and Br in the as-synthesized and the additional existence of Sb 3+ in the 50 and 100 μl Sb 3+ post-treated QD samples. Table S3 gives the binding energies of various elements in the as-synthesized and post-treated QDs from XPS data. The binding energy of Cs 3d 3/2 decreased from 738.54 to 738.35 eV when the dopant concentration was increased from as-synthesized to 100 μl Sb post-treated QDs (Figure S8) and Cs3d 5/2 was shifted from 724.47 to 724.42 eV. This indicated the weakening of binding energy between the Cs-Br bonds. 
 3+ ions changed the chemical environment of [PbBr 6 ] 4À octahedra and improved the Pb-Br interactions [45]. The presence of the O 1s peak F I G U R E 5 (a) XRD pattern of the as-synthesized and Sb 3+ post-treated (50 and 100 μl) CsPbBr 3 QDs on Day 1 of synthesis and (b) its enlarged view. (c) XRD pattern of as-synthesized and Sb 3+ post-treated (50 μl and 100 μl) CsPbBr 3 QDs on Day 8 of synthesis and (d) its enlarged view F I G U R E 6 TRPL decay of the as-synthesized and post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs in the XPS spectra of Sb 3d of 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs (Figure 7g) was derived from OA and OAm ligands, which are used during the synthesis to stabilize QDs. The O 1s peak has a binding energy of 532.2 eV and the O 1s peak is indicated in the XPS spectra of Sb 3d of 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs. There was an increase in binding energy for Sb 3+ 3d 5/2 from 50 μl Sb 3+ -doped QDs to 100 μl Sb 3+ -doped QDs (Figure S8c). The incorporation of Sb 3+ and Br À was confirmed in the post-treated QD samples. The increase in binding energy in the Pb, Br, and Sb indicates defect passivation in the CsPbBr 3 QD samples.To substantiate the improvement in the stability of the posttreated QDs, the stability tests of the sample in water, light, heat, and oxygen were carried out. Generally, perovskites are unstable when exposed to an aqueous environment and tend to lose their perovskite structure. The unstable nature of perovskites toward a hydrophilic environment was reflected in this analysis as well. A few drops of bare and post-treated QD solutions (50 μl Sb 3+ ) were drop casted on a glass slide followed by the addition of 5 μl of water using a micropipette. Even though the CsPbBr 3 QDs degraded the moment the water was added, the 50 μl Sb 3+ post-treated QD solution was stable for only 5 min and degraded eventually (FigureS9a,b) confirming the inherent nature of the perovskites towards the aqueous environment. 
 shows the PL spectra comparison for both samples after heating the solutions at 50 C. It is clear that the post-treatment has enhanced the PL stability of the sample as the rate of reduction in PL intensity is comparatively less for the posttreated sample when compared with bare QDs. Also, at 80 C, bare T A B L E 2 TRPL fitted data (bi-exponential function) of as-synthesized and post-treated QDs 
 F I G U R E 7 7 XPS spectra of Cs 3d of the (a) as-synthesized and (b) 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated QDs. XPS spectra of Pb 4f (c) as-synthesized and (d) 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated QDs. XPS spectra of Br 3d of (e) as-synthesized and (f) 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated QDs. XPS spectra of Sb 3d of (g) 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs QDs almost lose the PL intensity signifying the increased rates of non-radiative recombination over ruling radiative ones, whereas the post-treated sample still showcased an appreciable PL intensity at 80 C (FigureS10a,b). Finally, to check the stability against oxygen, the QD solutions were kept outside under ambient moisture conditions, and the PL spectra were taken after analyzing for 4 days (FigureS11a-d). The colour of bare QDs changed from green to yellow indicating the degradation of the QDs, which is supported by the drastic reduction in the PL intensity on Day 4 (FigureS11d). Conversely, the post-treated samples maintained the PL even after being exposed to ambient conditions for 4 days confirming the enhanced stability after post-treatment. Hence, from the optical, structural, and stability studies of Sb 3+ post-treated CsPbBr 3 QD samples, it is clear that they can be used for display applications due to high PLQY and the longer lifetime of the nanocrystals. The higher binding energies of the samples and the high defect tolerance [33]  of the QDs aid in longterm stability. The SbBr 3 treatment probably targets surface trap states, vacancies, and dangling bonds on CsPbBr 3 QDs, passivating these defects to reduce non-radiative recombination pathways. It may also counter surface oxidation, preventing the creation of additional trap states detrimental to PL intensity. The defect passivation mechanism on post-treated QDs resulted in photostability and the enhanced PL substantiates the future scope of the QDs in various optoelectronic applications, especially in LEDs [47] [48] [49]  and photodetectors [50] . Although lead halide QDs are widely explored, their water [51] , light, and thermal stability are always a topic of concern.Deng et al. [52]  reported on developing Sb 3+ -doped dual-phase perovskite nanocrystals with strong green PL and excellent water, light, and thermal stability. Similarly, many researchers are intrigued about addressing the stability issues [53]  of lead halide perovskite QDs, which include polymer encapsulation, doping, and surface treatments such as coating with silica, zeolites [54] , and glass to improve the stability of QDs, marking the future perspective of this work.4 | CONCLUSIONThis work discusses the post-treatment of CsPbBr 3 QDs with Sb 3+ ions, which resulted in the defect passivation and thus an overall increment of PLQY. The optical and structural characteristics of the CsPbBr 3 QDs with SbBr 3 post-treatment were studied from Day 1 and Day 8 of the QD synthesis. A mixture of ordered and packed cubical and orthorhombic phases of the QDs were formed in the post-treated samples after 8 days of synthesis. TEM analysis of SbBr 3 surface treatment revealed the formation of uniform-sized QDs after post-treatment. XRD confirmed the formation of a mixed crystal phase in both the as-synthesized and post-treated samples. Through the introduction of dopants at low concentrations, the PLQY was improved, and only a negligible reduction in PLQY was observed for the optimum-doped sample (50 μl). From XPS analysis, a slight increase in the binding energy of Pb, Br, and Sb shows the passivation of defects in the QD samples. The CsPbBr 3 perovskite QDs with the optimum doping concentration displayed increased stability and a longer lifespan substantiated by the stability analysis studies against water, heat, light, and oxygen. Hence, this work opens the prospect of Sb 3+ post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs for various optoelectronic F I G U R E 8 Camera photographs of 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated CsPbBr 3 QDs and CsPbBr 3 QDs on (a) Day 1 and (b) Day 4. (c) PL spectra of the bare and post-treated QD solution on Day 1 and Day 4 after continuous exposure to UV light for 4 days. (d) Comparison of PL spectra of 50 μl SbBr 3 post-treated and CsPbBr 3 after heating QDs at 50 C applications such as LEDs and photodetectors due to its high quantum yield and stability. 
 
 
			 15227243, 2024, 3, Downloaded from https://analyticalsciencejournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/bio.4706 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [26/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 of 11 S ET AL. 15227243, 2024, 3, Downloaded from https://analyticalsciencejournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/bio.4706 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [26/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
