Paper #: 2538_1
Title: Best Research-Cell Efficiencies 2000


Paper #: 2538_2
Title: Revealing the Dynamic Aspects of Photoinduced Halide Segregation in Mixed-Halide Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br Perovskite Films Using a Hyperspectral Imaging Technique

ABSTRACT: The band gap energy of halide perovskite semiconductors is manipulated by controlling the halide composition, and mixed halide perovskites are receiving much attention as top cell materials for tandem solar cells. To understand dynamic aspects of photoinduced halide segregation in mixed-halide perovskite films, we use a hyperspectral imaging technique. We reveal the space-and time-resolved photoluminescence (PL) spectra of Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br perovskite films during prolonged light illumination. Under applied electric fields, we observe photoinduced phase segregation at the excitation laser spot, with a line-shape I-rich region of low PL efficiency appearing near the anode electrode. This I-rich region moves from the anode to the cathode electrodes and stops at the laser excitation spot. We discuss the significant enhancement of halide ion migration under light illumination and the dynamical changes of photoinduced halide segregation. H alide perovskites are exceptional materials for optoelec- tronic devices due to their unique properties and ease of fabrication using simple chemical solution processes. They exhibit excellent optical properties, such as large absorption coefficients, high photoluminescence (PL) quantum efficiencies, long carrier lifetimes, and long diffusion lengths.  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7]  The rapid progress in improving the conversion efficiency of nextgeneration solar cells, which are thin, lightweight, and flexible, is inspiring and brings us closer to their practical implementation.  [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13]  The chemical composition of perovskites is generally described as ABX 3 [A = HC(NH 2 ) 2 (FA), CH 3 NH 3 (MA), Cs, B = Pb, Sn, X = I, Br, Cl], and the stability and the band gap energy can be controlled by changing the composition ratio at all A, B and X sites.  [14] [15] [16]  In recent years, there have been extensive studies on tandem solar cells that can achieve power conversion efficiencies beyond the Schockley-Queisser limit of single junction cells.  [17] [18] [19]  Mixed halide perovskites with I and Br at the X site have a wider band gap than the all-iodide system, making them suitable for use as the top cell materials in tandem solar cells. Although mixed halide perovskites have excellent band gap energy tunability, it is known that their PL spectrum changes significantly during prolonged light illumination.  20, 21  This photoinduced change in the PL spectrum is a reversible phenomenon in which the spectrum returns to the original spectrum when left in the dark. In I and Br mixed halide perovskite films, the PL spectra show that the I-rich and Brrich regions are formed during light illumination, called photoinduced halide segregation (PIHS). Several models have been proposed for the PIHS mechanism, such as the thermodynamic model,  22  the photocarrier energy model,  23  charge carrier gradient model,  24  surface defect model,  25  and the polaron-induced lattice strain model,  26, 27  but their validity is currently under discussion. Moreover, halide perovskite films fabricated by spin coating  28  have lattice defects and spatial inhomogeneity in the composition distribution,  29  and X-ray diffraction results of the halide segregation region reported by several groups are different from each other.  30  In addition to PIHS phenomena, it has been reported that applying bias to lead triiodide perovskite films reduces the PL intensity.  [31] [32] [33]  It is considered that positively charged defects move significantly under applied electric fields and that the migration and segregation of iodide ions produce PL quenching. We believe that the migration of ions and defects under applied fields is related to PIHS, but the relationship between halide ion migration and PIHS is not yet fully understood. Applying an electric field can actively induce ion migration and is, therefore, helpful in clarifying the ion migration dynamics. Understanding electric field-induced ion migrations and reversible photoinduced ion segregation, PIHS, are critical issues for suppressing the degradation of mixed halide perovskite solar cells. This work uses hyperspectral imaging spectroscopy to study the dynamical migration and segregation of halide ions during the PIHS in mixed halide perovskites. We found that the spatial images of the PL energy and intensity during PIHS under an applied field are different from those under no applied field. Spatially asymmetric ion migration occurs under light illumination and applied electric fields. It is concluded that the spatial migration of ions through halide vacancies causes halide segregation. A polycrystalline thin film of perovskite Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br was prepared by spin coating on a glass substrate with a gold electrode (details of the fabrication process are shown in Supporting Information). The reason for adopting this composition is shown below: Considering application to two-terminal tandem solar cells with a Si bottom cell, the optimal band gap energy for the top cell is ∼1.7 eV.  34  To achieve this value, the halide ratio was set to I:Br = 2:1. It is also known that mixed cation systems have higher stability compared to single-component A site, and the time scale of halide segregation within the excitation spot becomes relatively long.  35  Therefore, in this study, Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 was used as the Asite cation. Figure  S1a  shows the absorption spectrum of the Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br thin film. The Tauc plot shows the band gap energy of 1.744 eV, which is almost ideal for a tandem top cell. Figure  S1b  shows a surface image of the thin film obtained by scanning electron microscope (SEM). Closely packed submicron-sized grains were formed in the thin film sample. A cross-sectional SEM image of the thin film (Figure  S1c ) shows that the thickness of the flat perovskite layer was about 400 nm. An optical microscope image of the thin film sample in Figure  1a  shows the distance between the gold electrodes is approximately 100 μm. As shown in the schematic diagram in Figure  1a , the sample was sealed with a functional adhesive film and a cover glass and connected to a power supply using lead wires. The samples were excited with a 406 nm continuous wave (cw) laser and simultaneously applied 5.0 V with a direct current voltage source. After prolonged light illumination under the applied field, the cw laser and voltage were turned off, and hyperspectral PL images were obtained for 5 min under a weak excitation with a 450 nm light-emitting diode (LED). (Detailed schematics of experimental conditions are shown in Supporting Information, Figure  S2 .) Hyperspectral imaging can show a PL spectrum at each image pixel, enabling a high-resolution space-resolved PL spectrum. By repeatedly performing hyperspectral imaging after a certain period for intense 406 nm laser light illumination, we could obtain the space and time-resolved PL spectrum and investigate the dynamical aspects of halide segregation phenomena in mixed halide perovskite crystals. First, we performed hyperspectral imaging measurements during PIHS under a spot excitation with a 406 nm cw laser without applied voltage. To visualize the PL spectrum information for each image pixel, the spatial distribution of the PL energy was calculated from the obtained hyperspectral image at different illumination times. Here, the weighted average of the PL energy ⟨E⟩ t is calculated using eq 1 E E I E t E I E t E ( , )d ( , )d t E E E E 1 2 1 2 = • (1) where I(E, t) is the PL intensity at the photon energy E and at a time t after excitation laser illumination. The energy integral range is set from E 1 = 1.50 eV to E 2 = 1.90 eV. Figure  1b  shows the PL energy distribution before 406 nm excitation laser illumination, i.e., under no PIHS condition, and after the 40 min laser illumination, PIHS occurs at spot A. The PL energy map is approximately spatially uniform before excitation laser illumination (i.e., no PIHS), and the red shift of the PL spectrum occurs at the excitation spot A after 40 min excitation laser illumination. Figure  1c  shows the time evolution of the PL spectrum at the A and B points. At the excitation spot A, the PL energy red-shifted from about 1.73 eV to about 1.60 eV during laser illumination. This is consistent with the behavior of PIHS reported in previous studies.  20  On the other hand, at spot B, far outside the excitation spot, no significant change in the PL energy is observed. This means that PIHS does not occur under our weak 450 nm LED illumination condition during hyperspectral imaging measurements, and the red shift  
 The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters under LED illumination is sufficiently small compared to the case of intense laser excitation. Under applied electric fields, we discovered PL images that exhibited various patterns. Figure  2  shows the time evolution of the spatial distribution of the PL energy. Focusing on the excitation spot in the center of the image, a gradual red shift in the PL energy is observed with laser illumination time. This coincides with the behavior of PIHS when no electric field is applied. Meanwhile, focusing on the area between the excitation spot and the anode electrode, a line-shape region with the red-shifted PL energy (hereafter referred to as the migration front) appears near the anode electrode, and this migration front moves to the excitation spot (direction to the cathode electrode, see the 18-and 30 min images). When the line-shape migration front approaches the excitation spot, the bending of the migration front occurs around the laser excitation spot (see the 42-and 54 min images). The migration front is not observed between the excitation spot and the cathode electrode. The movement of the migration front stops around the laser excitation spot. The red-shifted PL migration front appears at a sufficient distance from the excitation spot (around 50 μm). Both electric fields and intense laser illumination are needed to observe the existence of this unique migration front. To clarify the nature of the migration front, we plotted the time evolution of the PL spectrum at four representative points in Figure  3 . In addition, Figure  S3  shows the time evolution of the differential PL spectrum, that is, the PL spectral changes from the original PL spectrum before excitation laser illumination. A red shift in the PL spectrum occurs with illumination time at the excitation laser spot A. This is consistent with the results in Figure  1  without an applied electric field. In addition, in spot B, between the excitation laser spot and the cathode electrode, and in spot D, far from the excitation laser illumination spot, there is no significant change in the PL energy and the PL intensity. Still, the lowenergy tail PL intensity increases with laser illumination time. These B and D spots are far outside the excitation laser spot. Still, the low-energy tail in the PL spectrum increases under an applied electric field, compared with the case of no applied  The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters electric field, as shown in Figure  1 . It suggests that the electric field enhances the PIHS under weak LED illumination: even weak LED illumination causes halide segregation under an applied electric field. Furthermore, the PL spectrum is red-shifted at point C between the excitation spot and the anode electrode before the migration front arrives. Then, the PL is blueshifted again after the migration front passes. A decrease in the PL intensity at around 1.73 eV and an increase in the PL intensity at around 1.60 eV were observed during the migration front movement. Note that the PL intensity at around 1.60 eV at the spot C is minimal compared to the case of the excitation spot A. It is also confirmed that both PL intensities at around 1.73 and 1.60 eV recovered after the migration front passed. Thus, the experimental observation that the red shift of the PL energy and the decrease in the PL intensity appear between the excitation spot and the anode electrode indicates that the migration front is a relatively I-rich region with a large density of nonradiative defects. The blueshift of the PL energy and the increase of the PL intensity recovery after the migration front passed are caused by the lattice defects being occupied with Br ions. To visualize the spatial distribution of the PL intensity of the original composition and the red-shifted PL intensity after PIHS, we calculated the intensity difference before and after PIHS, ΔI PL (E 1 , E 2 , t) as defined below: I E E t I E t I E E ( , , ) ( ( , ) ( , 0))d E E PL 1 2 1 2 = (2) For the original composition PL intensity, we obtain the energy-integrated PL intensity between E 1 = 1.710 eV and E 2 = 1.715 eV from hyperspectral images and the plot of the spatial intensity image in Figure  4(a) . Hereafter, we call the 1.71 eV PL as the PL at the original composition. After the excitation laser illumination, the reduced PL intensity region increases with the illumination time, moves toward the cathode electrode, and eventually stops at the excitation spot. Conversely, an increase in the 1.71 eV PL intensity is observed on the cathode electrode side. This map reflects the PL intensity of the original composition, and the decrease in the PL efficiency means an increase in the density of the nonradiative defects. Figure  4b  shows the change in the PL intensity spectrally integrated over the energy range (E 1 = 1.591 eV, E 2 = 1.596 eV) corresponding to the red-shifted PL or the 1.59 eV PL. The red-shifted PL comes from the I-rich region during PIHS. The main area of the increased PL intensity corresponds to the excitation laser spot. In addition, the increased PL intensity region is also located between the excitation spot and the cathode electrode. This map reflects the I-rich PL intensity region and the increased PL intensity corresponds to the increase in the I-ion composition and the decrease in the nonradiative defects. For reference, Figure  S4  also shows the overall PL intensity change integrated over the energy range (E 1 = 1.50 eV, E 2 = 1.90 eV). Since the migration front moves from the anode to the cathode electrodes and the PL intensity drastically decreases in the migration front region, we conclude that the migration front is a positively charged region and has a large number of lattice defects. Similar migration front formation from the anode electrode was reported by Bisquert et al. in single halide composition MAPbI 3 samples under applied fields.  32  Due to the injection of holes and halogen lattice defects, the area near the anode electrode becomes positively charged. Driven by the electric field formed in the thin film, the holes and defects move toward the cathode electrode, forming a migration front with reduced PL intensity.  32  In our experiments, as shown in SI and Figure  S5 , the mobility of the line-shape migration front is around 10 -9 cm 2 /(V s), consistent with the previously reported mobilities for halide ion migration.  31, 36  Moreover, we found that the ion migration front stops at the laser excitation spot. When the excitation laser is illuminated locally, free electrons and holes are generated at the excitation spot.  5  Under applied electric fields, the spatial separation of electrons and holes occurs. The movement of electrons and holes significantly reduces the effective internal electric field around the excitation spot. Because of a photocarrier screening effect, the electric field driving the ion migration disappears near the spot, and the migration front stops at the excitation spot. The samples used in this work are the I and Br mixed thin films. As mentioned, the migration front region shows the redshifted PL energy and the low PL intensity. The migration front is the I-rich region with many defects. The defect-rich region formed by the movement of vacancies appears parallel to the near the anode electrodes. Negative Br ions occupy these defects: The Br -ions move toward the anode side by exchanging vacancies and halide ions. The exchange of Br - ions and halide vacancy defects forms the I-rich migration front. The I-rich migration front moves toward the cathode electrode. The halide migration determines the velocity of the migration front. When the light-illuminated thin film was left in the dark, the migration front disappeared, and the PL energy returned to the same level as before PIHS. This result contradicts the thermodynamic model  22  that assumes that the mixed phase is unstable at room temperature. In addition, in our measurements, we observed changes in the PL spectrum at the laser excitation spot and at locations more than 50 μm away from the excitation spot in the anode direction. This result means that PIHS occurs even at distances longer than the carrier diffusion length from the excitation light irradiation spot and refutes the photocarrier model  23  in which the region where the diffusion length of the generated free carriers limits the PL spectrum changes. In the polaron-induced lattice distortion model,  26, 27  the driving force is the lattice distortion caused by light illumination, so it is possible to explain the recovery to the mixed phase in the dark state, the change in the PL spectrum not only within the excitation light irradiation spot but also around it, and the asymmetric change in the PL spectrum when voltage is applied. However, the polaron radius and diffusion length are minimal, so this model cannot explain PIHS far from the excitation spot. In addition to photocarrier and polaron effects, a recent report suggests the importance of local heating on PIHS.  37  It is known that halide perovskites show sizable thermal expansion coefficients, unique electronphonon couplings, and low thermal conductivity, affecting near-band-edge optical responses.  38, 39  From the dynamical behaviors of the migration front near the laser excitation spot, we conclude that photocarrier and ion migration under electric fields play an essential role in PIHS. In solar cell devices where the perovskite layer sandwiched by electron-transport and hole-transport layers, reversible and irreversible changes of the device performance were reported during the cycle of light illumination and dark (day-night periods).  [40] [41] [42]  We clearly show the effect of electric field on the PIHS dynamics, and the observed ion migration under an electric field is considered to be closely related to slow changes during the illumination-dark cycle in solar cell devices.  40, 41  In addition, it was reported that halide segregation at the electrode depends on the electron-transport and hole-transport materials.  25  The charge trapping and accumulation of charge carrier occurs at the interface in solar cell devices under strong and/or prolonged light illumination.  43, 44  Local electric fields near the interface might enhance PIHS in solar cells. Further studies are needed to understand our unique phenomena and PIHS in thin films and PIHS in mixed halide perovskite solar cells under device operation. In summary, we found unique PIHS phenomena in mixed Br and I halide perovskite thin films under applied electric fields and local photoexcitation. The line-shape I-rich ion migration front is formed near the anode electrode, where a red shift in the PL spectrum and a decrease in PL intensity appear. This migration front moves from the anode electrode to the excitation spot. The formation and movement of the migration front indicate that PIHS occurs in the area away from the excitation spot under an applied voltage. Laser excitation in mixed halide perovskites affects the inside and outside of the laser excitation spot, inducing large-scale halide migration through lattice defects. Applied electric fields cause the largescale PIHS. This is the clear demonstration of the electric field effect on the PIHS dynamics and macroscopic ion migration far exceeding the grain size from time-and space-resolved measurements of the PL spectrum during PIHS. Our observations hint at understanding the PIHS mechanism and suppressing halide segregation of mixed halide perovskite solar cells. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT 
 * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at  https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jpclett.4c03077 . Sample preparation and characterization (Figure  S1 ), optical measurement setup (Figure  S2 ), time evolution of the PL spectral change during PIHS (Figure  S3 ), time evolution of the PL intensity change during PIHS (Figure  S4 ), and evaluation of ion migration mobility (Figure  S5 ) (PDF) 
 ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Author Yoshihiko Kanemitsu -Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011, Japan; orcid.org/ 0000-0002-0788-131X; Email: kanemitu@scl.kyotou.ac.jp Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (a) Optical microscope image of a Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br polycrystalline thin film sample and schematic diagram of the sample structure after encapsulation. (b) Spatial mapping of the PL energy before and after prolonged light illumination without applied bias. The A point is the center of the excitation spot, and the B point is far outside. Two points are between the cathode and the anode electrodes. (c) The time evolution of the PL spectrum at the A and B points under no applied voltage. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. Time evolution of the spatial mapping of the PL energy under 5 V and the spot excitation of the 406 nm laser. The cumulative time for PIHS is shown at each mapping. In addition, + anddenote the anode and cathode electrodes. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Time evolution of the PL spectrum at representative points under an applied voltage. Each spectrum corresponds to (A) the center of the excitation spot, (B) a point between the excitation spot and the cathode electrode, (C) a point between the excitation spot and the anode electrode, and (D) a point between the cathode and the anode electrodes far outside the excitation spot. These corresponding points are indicated in the map of the PL energy (left, the same as Figure 2 for 30 min). 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. Temporal and spatial evolution of the PL intensity changes for (a) the original composition PL at around 1.71 eV and (b) the red-shifted PL at around 1.59 eV. The time at the top of each figure represents the cumulative time for the excitation laser illumination. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.4c03077 J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2024, 15, 12341-12347 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 22, 2025 at 06:26:12 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.4c03077 J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2024, 15, 12341-12347
Paper #: 2538_3
Title: Revealing the dynamic aspects of photoinduced halide segregation in mixed-halide Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2 Br perovskite films using a hyperspectral imaging technique

Table of Contents 1. Sample preparation and characterization (Figure  S1 ). 2. Optical measurement setup (Figure  S2 ). 3. Time evolution of the PL spectral change during PIHS (Figure  S3 ). 4. Time evolution of the PL intensity change during PIHS (Figure  S4 ).  S5 ) References 
 Evaluation of ion migration mobility (Figure 
 Sample preparation and characterization A substrate was obtained by cutting a slide glass (Matsunami Glass) into a square of 26 mm and was immersed in isopropyl alcohol and ultrasonically cleaned for 10 minutes, and then attached to a deposition machine. After masking the substrate with Kapton tape and an iron wire with a diameter of 100 µm, 10 nm of chromium and 200 nm of gold were vacuum deposited onto the substrate, yielding a substrate with electrodes with an inter-electrode distance of 100 µm. The substrates were cleaned by ultrasonication in detergent solution (Semico Clean 56, Furuuchi chemical), ultrapure water, acetone, and isopropyl alcohol, followed by drying with an air gun. The organic residues on substrates were removed by plasma treatment. Cesium iodide (CsI, Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.), formamidine hydroiodide (FAI, Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.), lead (II) iodide (PbI2, Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.), lead (II) bromide (PbBr2, Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.), and N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, Kanto Chemical Co., Ltd.) were mixed in a nitrogen-filled glove box and stirred at 40 °C for 30 minutes to form a 1.2 M Cs0.15FA0.85PbI2Br solution. Acetate salt was used as an additive to control the crystal growth  [S1] . The solution was filtered through a 0.45 µm polytetrafluoroethylene filter, and 100 µL of the resulting precursor solution was spin-coated onto the substrate, which was dried under vacuum for 1 minute and annealed at 150 °C for 10 minutes to form a perovskite layer. A functional adhesive film (FD 28, Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Ltd.) was attached as an encapsulant to a sealing glass (25 mm × 10 mm) and then heated at 120 °C for 10 minutes. The perovskite film sample was placed in the sealing device while the electrode part of the sample was in contact with the sealing material. After degassing by evacuating at 70 °C for 3 minutes, pressure was applied for 2 minutes to bond the sample and the sealant. The perovskite layer in the non-sealed area was wiped off with a cotton swab to expose the electrode, and a conductive wire was attached to the electrode using Dotite (D-500, Fujikura Kasei Co., Ltd.). Figure  S1a  shows the absorption spectrum of a sample. The Tauc plot shows that the sample with the band gap of 1.744 eV was obtained. Figure  S1b  shows a surface image of the thin film obtained by scanning electron microscope (SEM). A cross-sectional SEM image of the thin film (Fig.  S1c ) shows that the thickness of the flat perovskite layer was about 400 nm.   
 Optical measurement setup Figure  S2a  shows a schematic diagram of the optical system for hyperspectral imaging measurements. Figure  S2b  shows an overview of the measurement sequence. The sample was excited by a 406 nm continuous wave (cw) laser and a direct current (DC) voltage was applied simultaneously to induce halide segregation. A neutral density (ND) filter was appropriately installed on the excitation light path to adjust the excitation intensity. The excitation light was reflected by a 475 nm long-pass filter (LPF) and then focused perpendicularly onto the sample through a 50× objective lens from the cover glass side. A picoampere meter was connected to the conductor attached to the sample, and voltage was applied to the electrode. The laser beam radius (1/e radius of the Gaussian function) was 19 μm, the excitation light intensity was 2.0 W/cm 2 , and the applied voltage was 5.0 V. After prolonged light illumination and voltage application, the cw laser and voltage were turned off, and spatially resolved measurements of the photoluminescence (PL) spectrum were performed. A white light-emitting diode (LED) with a bandpass filter (BPF) (center wavelength = 450 nm, bandwidth = 10 nm) was used as an excitation light source to irradiate the back of the sample. The LED light irradiation area was 4.5 mm square, and the excitation light intensity was 0.017 W/cm 2 . The PL image from the sample was collected with the objective lens and separated from the excitation light by the LPF. After passing through an ultra-high stability interferometer (GEMINI, NIREOS), the PL image was focused on a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) camera with an aspheric achromatic lens with f = 200 mm. 1312 images were acquired by changing the thickness of the birefringent material in the ultra-high stability interferometer. A hyperspectral image of the PL was obtained by performing Fourier transform on each pixel of the acquired images in the range from 500 nm to 1100 nm. By repeatedly performing hyperspectral imaging after a certain period for strong 406-nm laser light illumination and electric field application, we were able to obtain the time evolution of the PL spectrum mapping during photoinduced halide segregation (PIHS).    (𝑣 = 1.14×10 -6 cm/s) and the electric field strength (𝐸 = 500 V/cm) when the applied voltage was 5 V, the mobility was calculated to be 𝜇 = 2.3×10 -9 cm 2 /Vs. Furthermore, when the applied voltage is 10 V, the mobility was calculated to be 𝜇 = 1.3×10 -9 cm 2 /Vs. Compared with the previously reported values of the halogen ion mobility (𝜇 = (5±2)×10 -8 cm 2 /Vs  [S2]  and 𝜇 = 1×10 -9 cm 2 /Vs  [S3] ), we conclude that the migration front is a visualization of the migration of halogen ions.  
 Time evolution of the PL intensity change during PIHS Fig. S1 ( S1 Fig. S1 (a) Absorption spectrum of the Cs0.15FA0.85PbI2Br polycrystalline thin film. The inset shows the Tauc plot for direct gap semiconductors. The corresponding bandgap energy is 1.744 eV. (b) Surface SEM image of the Cs0.15FA0.85PbI2Br polycrystalline thin film. (c) Cross-sectional SEM image of the Cs0.15FA0.85PbI2Br polycrystalline thin film. 
 Fig. S2 ( S2 Fig. S2 (a) Schematic of the optical system for hyperspectral imaging. (b) Overview of the measurement sequence. 
 Fig. S3 Time evolution of the PL spectrum changes at representative points under an applied electric field. Each spectrum corresponds to (A) the center of the excitation spot, (B) a point between the excitation spot and the cathode electrode, (C) a point between the excitation spot and the anode electrode, and (D) a point between the cathode and the anode electrodes outside the excitation spot. The corresponding points are indicated in the PL energy map at 30 min of total laser excitation time (the same figure of Fig. 2 for 30 minutes in the main text). 
 Fig. S4 S4 Fig. S4 Temporal and spatial evolution of the overall PL intensity changes integrated from 1.50 to 1.90 eV. The time at the top of each figure represents the cumulative time for excitation laser illumination. 
 Figure Figure S5a shows the time evolution of the PL energy and the PL intensity change. The data are taken from the spatial mapping of the PL energy of Fig. 2 in the main text and the PL intensity change of Fig. S4. The center position is the excitation spot. As indicated by the arrows in the figure, the migration front moves to the cathode electrode. The cumulative time of voltage application is plotted against the position of the migration front in Figure S5b. The mobility 𝜇 of a charged particle moved by an electric field can be expressed as 𝜇 = 𝑣 𝐸 ⁄ . Here, 𝑣 is the migration speed and 𝐸 is the electric field strength. Using the migration speed obtained from the linear fitting results 
 Fig. S5 S5 Fig. S5 (a) Spatial profiles of the PL energy and the PL intensity change at different times. The applied voltage is 5 V. The positions of the migration front (local minimum of the PL energy) are indicated by black arrows. (b) Correlation between the position of the migration front and the cumulative time of voltage application (red: 5 V, blue: 10 V). The circle points indicate the position of the migration front at each time, and the solid line indicates the linear fitting result.
