Paper #: 16714_1
Title: Charge-transfer States at the Fullerene Interface Cause Non-radiative Recombination Losses in Snbased Perovskite Solar Cells
Aldrich. Poly (3,4ethylene dioxythiophene)-poly (styrene sulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) solution was purchased from Heraeus. Formamidinium iodide (FAI), phenethylammonium iodide (PEAI), and phenethylammonium bromide (PEABr) were purchased from GreatCell Solar (Australia).
Device fabrication The patterned ITO glass substrates were cleaned using detergent, deionized water, ethanol, acetone, isopropanol in an ultrasonic bath for 20 minutes, sequentially. Then, the ITO glass substrates were dried with N2 flow and cleaned with UV-Ozone for 25 mins. After that, the PEDOT: PSS layers were deposited on the ITO glass substrates, by spin-coating (3s 500 rpm, 55 s 4000 rpm, 3 s 1000 rpm), followed by annealing at 140 °C for 20 min. We prepared 2D/3D PEAX-modified FASnI3 solutions by mixing FAI, SnI2, SnF2, and PEAI or PEABr in DMF and DMSO with a volume ratio of 4:1. The solution stirred for a duration of 2 hours and was filtered prior to its utilization. All the perovskite precursor solutions were filtered with a 0.25 µm PTFE filter and subsequently spin-coated onto ITO/PEDOT: PSS substrates (10 s 1000 rpm, 20 s 6000 rpm, 1 s 4000 rpm, 1 s 2000 rpm). Al the perovskite films were treated by drop-casting 300 µL anisole as the anti-solvent during the spinning process at about 25 seconds. Then, all the films were post-annealed at 80 °C for 10 min. To make an electron-extraction layer, 70 µL of ICBA (20 mg/mL in CB) solution was spin-coated on the top of perovskite film at the speed of 1400 rpm for the 30s. Subsequently, an ultrathin BCP layer (<2 nm) was created by spin-coating 50 μL of a 0.5 mg mL -1 BCP solution in ethanol at 3000 rpm for 35 seconds. Finally, 100 nm Ag as top electrodes were evaporated on top of the film through a shadow mask by thermal evaporation.  
 Film and device characterization X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra were acquired using a Bruker D8 diffractometer equipped with a theta-theta geometry. The diffractometer employed Cu X-ray radiation and incorporated a Göbel mirror as the primary optics system. The X-rays were detected by a 1D detector known as Lynxeye. The perovskite film Top-view morphology was measured by FEI Quanta 200F field emission gun scanning electron microscopy (FEG-SEM). Abortion spectra captured using an Agilent Cary 500. Chemical analysis was conducted using a commercial electron spectrometer (PHI-5600LS) with monochromatized Al-Kα photons (1486.6 eV). Photoluminescence (PL) experiments were performed at room temperature under excitation with a 405 nm pulsed diode laser (Thorlabs, NPL41C, 6 ns pulse length and 4.1 nJ per pulse). Backscattered PL emission was diffracted in a grating spectrograph (Andor, Kymera 328i-D2-SIL) and registered by a linear CCD detector (Andor, iDus 416-LDC-DD). Unwanted laser reflections were eliminated from the spectrum by means of a 405 nm notch filter in front of the spectrograph entrance. Electroluminescence (EL) experiments were performed using the same set-up. The driving voltage over the solar cells was applied using a Keithley 2401 source meter. During both PL and EL experiments, the samples were mounted under N2 atmosphere in an airtight sample holder to avoid sample degradation. All PL and EL data were corrected for the spectral response of the set-up determined using a calibrated light source (Avantes, AvaLight-HAL-CAL-Mini). Photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) experiments on spin-coated films have been performed using an integrating sphere (Thorlabs IS200-4) following the procedure described in ref  [1] . A high-radiance broadband light source (Energetiq, EQ99 LDLS) in combination with an appropriate band-pass filter was used for photo-excitation with blue light. The integrating sphere was connected with a CCD spectrograph (Avantes, Avaspec-3648) via an optical fibre (600 μm diameter). All spectra were corrected for the spectral response of the sphere and the detection system determined using a calibrated light source (Avantes, AvaLight-HAL-CAL-Mini). In order to avoid photo-degradation during the experiment, the perovskite films were covered with a glass coverslip, which was glued using a UV curing adhesive onto To ensure consistency and avoid air-degradation during the Time-Resolved Photoluminescence (TRPL) experiment, a similar procedure was employed as for the PLQY samples. TRPL spectroscopy at 880 nm was measured using PicoQuanta FluoTime 300. J(V)-curves were obtained using a Keithley 2400 source unit under simulated AM 1.5 G solar illumination. Calibration of the sun simulator was performed using a silicon reference cell to achieve an irradiance of 1000 W cm -2 (AM 1.5G). The J(V)-measurements were conducted by scanning the voltage in both the forward direction, ranging from -0.5 to 0.9 V, and the reverse direction.    Figure S1 . S1 Figure S1. Schematic diagram of Sn-based perovskite film preparation. 
 Figure S2 . S2 Figure S2. XPS Sn-3d5/2 core level spectra (open symbols) of FASnI3, PEAI-FASnI3 and PEABr- 
 Table S . 1 : S1 PLQY of PEABr-FASnI3 perovskite films on glass, ITO/PEDOT:PSS, and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite/ICBA (or PCBM)/BCP from either glass side or ITO side. Stack PLQY (%) - PLQY (%) film side -glass side glass/Sn-perovskite 3.1 3 ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite 0.85 0.84 ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn- 0.51 0.49 perovskite/PCBM ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn- 0.76 0.75 perovskite/ICBA 
 Table S . 2 : S2 Relative atomic concentration of Sn 2+ and Sn 4+ for each perovskite film surface Sample Relative Atomic Concentration (%) Sn 2+ Sn 4+ FASnI3 50 50 PEAI-FASnI3 64 36 PEABr-FASnI3 69 31
Paper #: 16714_2
Title: Charge-Transfer States at the Fullerene Interface Cause Nonradiative Recombination Losses in Sn-Based Perovskite Solar Cells
Tin-based perovskite solar cells (PSCs) are emerging as a more environmentally friendly alternative to traditional PSCs that typically contain toxic lead. In this work, we study the influence of the Sn-perovskite/fullerene interface on the open-circuit voltage (V oc ). When the fullerene derivative ICBA is used as the electron transport layer, the V oc reaches 0.68 V, while the band gap of the Sn-perovskite is 1.44 eV, giving a voltage deficit of 0.76 V. Using PCBM as the electron transport layer, this deficit is 0.19 V higher. Herein, we identify through Fourier transform photocurrent spectroscopy and luminescence measurements that interfacial charge-transfer states at the Sn-perovskite/fullerene interface induce a nonradiative recombination channel. The energy of these states should be increased in order to mitigate voltage losses at the contacts.
■ INTRODUCTION Organic-inorganic lead halide perovskites have inspired the scientific and industrial communities to develop nextgeneration printable solar cell technology. Recently, lab-scale devices have achieved remarkably high power conversion efficiency (PCE) beyond 26% during recent years.  1, 2  Despite their excellent electro-optic properties, the toxicity and instability of lead perovskites restrict their application and commercialization.  3, 4  With increasing attention to environmental issues, researchers have devoted considerable efforts to explore low-toxicity substitute elements such as Sn  2+  or Ge  2+  as well as mono-and trivalent Bi 3+ and others.  5, 6  Among these alternatives, Sn-based perovskites are considered to be the best candidates for replacing lead. First, they are environmentally safer compared to lead  7  and their narrower optical band gap is within the optimum gap range as predicted by Shockley-Queisser.  8  So far, the highest PCE reported for Sn-based PSCs is approximately 14%, substantially lagging behind lead-based PSCs.  9  One of the fundamental challenges of Sn-based PSCs is the high sensitivity of Sn 2+ ions to humidity and oxygen  10  to form Sn  4+  , which has been reported to result in the creation of Sn vacancies in the perovskite lattice, causing a high level of self-p-doping and nonradiative recombination.  11  Another important challenge that contributes to the low photovoltaic performance of Sn-based PSCs is uncontrolled and rapid crystallization.  12  Among the various approaches that have been suggested to overcome oxidation and nonuniform morphology of Sn-based PSCs, additive engineering is the most effective one. Adding small amounts of bulky organic cations such as butylammonium (BA) and phenylethylammonium (PEA), i.e., in the form of the salt PEAX where X is the halide anion, not only helps improve the stability of Sn-based PSCs against moisture due to their hydrophobic nature but also induces high-quality crystallinity and well-defined orientation, which further suppresses the oxidation of Tin and reduces the number of Tin vacancies.  [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19]  However, the device performance of Snbased PSCs still lags behind that of Pb-based PSCs, mainly due to a large open-circuit voltage (V oc ) deficit, i.e., a large difference between eV oc and the band gap. This is likely connected in large part to the higher defect densities compared to their Pb-based counterparts but also due to nonoptimized band offsets to adjacent charge transport layers (CTLs), which limit efficient charge extraction. Thus, an effective approach to address the issue of low V oc involves selecting appropriate CTLs with the proper alignment of energy levels. One potential solution is to replace monoadduct [6,6]-phenyl C 61 butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) with the indene-C 60 bisadduct (ICBA) as an alternative electron transport layer (ETL), which possesses a higher lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) than PCBM.  20, 21  Although the positive effect of the ICBA on Sn-based PSC performance has been shown by several researchers,  9, 20, 22, 23  there is little known about the perovskite films with the CTLs. To bridge this gap, we studied nonradiative recombination and associated voltage losses in Sn-based PSCs, with a particular focus on the nature of the perovskite/fullerene interface. First, we regulate the film quality of the Sn-based perovskite film by introducing a small amount of PEABr to replace PEAI in the Tin perovskite precursor. Through a series of characterizations, the introduction of Br -has been shown to effectively passivate defects in the Sn-based perovskite film and reduce the nonradiative recombination. Second, we replaced PCBM with ICBA as an electron transport layer (ETL), which leads to a substantial increase of the device voltage, reaching 0.68 V. The origin of nonradiative recombination is investigated using a combination of Fourier transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS) and luminescence measurements. These measurements provide evidence of the charge-transfer (CT) states at the Sn-perovskite/fullerene interface. In the case of PCBM, these CT states result in weak subgap absorption and increased nonradiative recombination as compared to the ICBA case. ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Optoelectronic Properties. To gain insights into the influence of different additives and ETLs on the photovoltaic performance, Sn-based perovskite devices were fabricated in an inverted planar architecture; Figure  1a  shows the molecular structure of PCBM and ICBA as ETLs and the device stack ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite/ETL/BCP/Ag. The preparation of perovskite films involves a one-step process using the antisolvent method.  24  Detailed fabrication information can be found in the Experimental Section of the Supporting Information. Figure  1b  shows the current density-voltage (J-V) curves of the champion solar cells under AM 1.5G illumination (100 mW/cm 2 ) with the statistical distribution of the corresponding device series depicted in Figure  1c -1f, while panels of the corresponding photovoltaic (PV) characteristics are summarized in Table  1 . The pristine FASnI 3 film based on PCBM exhibits a lower efficiency of 3.5%, with a V oc of 0.38 V and fill factor (FF) of 50%. The incorporation of PEAI into the precursor solution significantly improves the efficiency of PCBM-based solar cells up to 5%. By replacing PEAI with PEABr, the short-circuit current J sc is further enhanced from 15.5 to 17 mA/cm 2 , resulting in a PCE of 5.2%. However, PCBM-based devices still suffer from a low V oc . Consequently, the ICBA was used as an alternative ETL, resulting in a significantly higher V oc of 0.68 V with a J sc of 20.6 mA/cm 2 , FF of 65%, and PCE of 9.1%. Multiple devices were fabricated, and the statistics of the PV performance are presented in Figure  1c -f, confirming the reproducibility of the devices. The device with 15 wt % PEABr as an additive and the ICBA as an ETL performs the best. Despite its better charge transport properties,  25  the PCBM-containing devices consistently underperform as compared to the ICBA-containing devices. In particular, it is clear that the Sn-perovskite/ETL interface significantly affects V oc . Below, we will study the morphology and energetic structure responsible for this in more detail. Morphological and Optical Properties of the Sn-Based Perovskite. The effects of PEAX with different halides on the crystallization of the perovskite were investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Figure  2a  compares the XRD patterns of 3D FASnI 3 , PEAI-FASnI 3 , and PEABr-FASnI 3 films on glass substrates. The pristine FASnI 3 perovskite film exhibits three main characteristic peaks assigned to the crystal planes of (100), (200), and (300), with an orthorhombic crystal structure and random orientations. Figure  2a  shows that in the presence of the PEABr additive, there is a sharp increase in the peak intensity, pointing out to an increased crystallinity. This has been attributed to the fact that the radius of Br -, introduced by the PEABr additive, is smaller than I -.  [26] [27] [28]  The inclusion of smaller Br -ions tends to shift the crystal lattice from the tetragonal phase toward the cubic phase. This transition toward a more symmetrical lattice structure is partly responsible for the enhanced crystallinity observed upon the insertion of Br -ions.  27  Figure  2b -d shows scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of PEAX-modified FASnI 3 perovskite films for the different halides. The morphology changed significantly with the addition of PEAX. The average size of crystals for 3D FASnI 3 , PEAI-FASnI 3 , and PEABr-FASnI 3 is 250, 300, and 350 nm, respectively. In the absence of additives, some pinholes can be seen, which lead to a rough and uneven surface and consequently a low fill factor (FF). The presence of additives enlarged the grain sizes and made the film more compact with fewer pinholes. A more crystalline perovskite film with larger and more well-defined grains tends to have fewer defects, grain boundaries, recombination rates, and improved interface quality. A smoother and more uniform perovskite film interface reduces interface recombination losses and enhances charge extraction and collection at the electrode interfaces, contributing to a higher short-circuit current, as observed in Figure  1e . The beneficial impacts of the PEABr additive on the film quality are summarized in Figure  3 . The UV-vis absorption onset of the PEABr-modified perovskite film shifts from 900 to 860 nm when I -is replaced with Br -, indicating an increase in the band gap from 1.37 to 1.44 eV (Figure  3a ). This has been attributed to a slight lattice shrinkage due to the replacement of I -by Br -.  29  The PL spectrum of PEABr-FASnI 3 (Figure  3b ) exhibits a blue shift. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) confirms the role of the PEABr additive in Sn 2+ passivation during film fabrication. Figure  3c  compares the ratio of Sn 2+ to Sn 4+ in Sn-perovskite films with and without an additive. The decomposition of the Sn 3d 5/2 core level into two peak components centered at 486.5 and 487.5 eV, attributed to Sn 2+ and Sn 4+ , respectively, show that the amount of Sn 4+ significantly decreases in the presence of the PEABr additive (Figure  S2  and Table  S2  show and estimated a decrease of the Sn 4+ content by a factor 1.6). PLQY and TR-PL of the Sn-Based Perovskite. We now investigate the V oc limitation of our PEABr-FASnI 3 device in more detail. To quantify the effect of the ICBA ETL on the overall nonradiative recombination and voltage losses, we carried out photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TR-PL) measurements. To exclude the influence of the atmosphere during the PL measurements, all samples were encapsulated with a cover glass to ensure the reliability of the measurement. The PLQY values of different samples measured with excitation from either the film or glass side exhibited a similar trend (see the Supporting Information). We performed PLQY measurements on both glass/Sn-perovskite and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite substrates to assess recombination in the bulk material or at the PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite interface. Partial device stacks ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite/ICBA (or PCBM)/BCP were used to compare the degree of interfacial recombination at the ETL/Sn-perovskite interface. As can be seen in Figure  4a , the perovskite coated on the glass showed a rather high PLQY of 3.1%. However, when the Sn-perovskite is deposited on PEDOT:PSS, the PLQY is substantially reduced from 3.1 to 0.85%. With the addition of the fullerene/BCP ETL, the PLQY reduced further to 0.51% for PCBM/BCP and 0.76% for ICBA/BCP. This indicates that as compared to the Snperovskite/PCBM interface, the Sn-perovskite/ICBA interface has suppressed nonradiative recombination. However, this PLQY does not reach that of the neat film or that of the ITO/ PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite sample, suggesting that still a significant amount of nonradiative recombination exists at the Sn-perovskite/ICBA interface. This is confirmed by the time-resolved photoluminescence (TR-PL) measurement on the Sn-perovskite film with different additives on top of glass and semifull stacks for PEABr-FASnI 3 with different ETLs. We extract 10, 12, and 19 ns decay time for FASnI 3 , PEAI-FASnI 3 , and PEABr-FASnI 3 , respectively, based on the curves plotted in Figure  4b . However, we find a lower decay time for the partial device stacks ITO/ PEDOT:PSS/PEABr-FASnI 3 /ICBA(PCBM)/BCP, which indicates that quenching is predominantly happening in CTLs. When using the ICBA instead of PCBM, the lifetime increases from 5.5 to 8.5 ns, consistent with the increased PLQY. Voltage Analysis of the Sn-Based Perovskite. In order to reveal the origin of the nonradiative recombination pathways at the Sn-perovskite/fullerene interface, we employed Fourier transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS). Figure  5b  displays the photovoltaic external quantum efficiency (EQE PV ) spectrum of devices using PCBM and the ICBA as the interlayer on a logarithmic scale, measured over 6-7 decays of devices using PCBM and the ICBA as the interlayer. The blue shift observed in the UV-vis and PL spectra (Figure  3a, b ) upon adding PEABr is also visible in the FTPS spectra as a shift of the main absorption onset around 1.25 eV. A subgap absorption band is visible between 0.8 and 1.2 eV for PCBMbased devices assembled with or without the PEABr additive. When substituting PCBM with the ICBA, this subgap absorption is severely suppressed and/or blue-shifted. We therefore assign the origin of this extra subgap absorption to the Sn-perovskite/PCBM interface, since its presence depends on the type of ETL. At this interface, charge-transfer (CT) transitions, exciting an electron from the valence band of the Sn-perovskite to the LUMO of PCBM are possible, depicted in Figure  5a . CT transitions at the fullerene/BCP interface are not expected, based on the relative energetic position of the frontier energy levels at the interface.  30  The absence of a subgap CT band in the ICBA suggests a strongly decreased Snperovskite/fullerene interfacial area or a blue shift of the CT band to energies above the Sn-perovskite band gap. We rule out the former since the CT absorption band observed in the PCBM is suppressed by a factor of 100 in the ICBA case, which would imply at least a factor of 100 decrease in the interfacial area. This is unlikely, as the Sn-perovskite roughness is not expected to depend on the subsequently deposited fullerene. Furthermore, such a severe decrease in the interfacial area between the ETL and active layer would result in poor charge extraction in the ICBA case, which is not observed in the IV curves. We therefore attribute the absence of the subgap CT band in the ICBA case to the presence of the electron-rich indene groups on the ICBA resulting in an increased LUMO by 0.17 eV 20 as compared to the PCBM. A blue shift of the CT absorption onset of this magnitude would shift it beneath the main Sn-perovskite absorption, explaining the undetected subgap CT absorption when using the ICBA as the ETL. Decay of these interfacial CT states occurs nonradiatively as electroluminescent spectra of devices with PCBM as the ETL do not reveal any red-shifted emission band consistent with the CT emission (Figure  5c ). This nonradiative recombination process diminishes the steady-state charge density by facilitating recombination, leading to a subsequent decrease in the open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of a solar cell. The EL and FTPS spectra can be used to calculate the maximum theoretical open-circuit voltage of a where k B is the Boltzmann constant, T is the temperature in Kelvin, e is the elementary charge, J sc is the short-circuit current density, and J 0 is the minimum achievable dark saturation current in the absence of nonradiative recombination. It can be determined from the sensitively measured EQE spectra by FTPS.  31, 32  The maximum theoretically achievable open-circuit voltage (V oc rad ) for the PEABr-FASnI 3 perovskite, where the band gap (E g ) is 1.44 eV and J sc equals to 20.54 mA/cm 2 at room temperature, is in this way calculated to be 1.18-1.19 V, which means that in the ideal case, there would be ∼0.25 V voltage deficit (ΔV oc = E g /e -V oc rad = 0.25 V). It is evident that the measured V oc = 0.49 V for PCBM and V oc = 0.68 V for the ICBA are significantly lower than the theoretical maximum V oc rad . For PCBM as the ETL, the nonradiative voltage loss ΔV oc,cal nrad , i.e., the difference between V oc rad and V oc , is 0.69 V, while for the ICBA, it is 0.51 V. Table  2  summarizes these values. The nonradiative voltage losses (ΔV oc,cal nrad = V oc rad -V oc ) determined via eq 1 are related to the external electroluminescence quantum efficiency (EQE EL ) of the devices operated as a light-emitting diode at low injection currents. The relation between ΔV oc nrad and EQE EL is expressed as eq 2 33 The experimental determination of EQE EL at low injection currents is complicated by the low EL emission yields of the devices. For the ICBA devices, we measured an EQE EL value of 10 -7 at 30 mA/cm 2 . At lower injection currents, EL emission became undetectable. 10 -7 represents thus an upper limit for the EQE EL relevant under solar conditions. Using this value, eq 2 predicts a lower limit for the nonradiative voltage losses of ΔV oc nrad of 0.41 V at 298 K, which indeed underestimates the measured ΔV oc,cal nrad determined using the FTPS spectra (see Table  2 ) by 0.1 V. For the PCBM devices, we expect an EQE EL of 10 -12 , based on eq 2. This is well below the detection limit of our EQE EL setup. We indeed could not detect any EL when injection currents were used on the order of the short-circuit current for the PCBM devices. 
 ■ CONCLUSIONS One of the primary challenges in the development of Sn-based perovskite solar cells is achieving a high open-circuit voltage. By using Fourier transform and electroluminescence spectroscopy, we have determined nonradiative voltage losses using an ICBA ETL in the range of 0.41-0.51 V, which contrasts with the corresponding value for Pb-based PSCs (with V oc nrad = 0.17 V).  34      Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (a) Schematic diagram of the device configuration of Sn-based PSCs. (b) Current density-voltage curves of champion solar cells of pristine FASnI 3 and PEAX-modified PSCs with different ETLs. Statistical distributions of (c) PCE, (d) V oc , (e) J sc , and (f) FF of Sn-based PSCs. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) X-ray diffraction patterns, (b-d) SEM images, and (e-g) size distribution of 3D FASnI 3 , PEAI-FASnI 3 , and PEABr-FASnI 3 films. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a) UV-vis spectra, (b) steady-state PL, and (c) XPS spectra of the Sn 3d 5/2 core level of 3D FASnI 3 and PEAX-FASnI 3 films. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. (a) PLQY of PEABr-FASnI 3 perovskite films with and without CTLs. Time-resolved PL (TRPL) of (b) Sn-perovskite with and without additives, measured on glass, and (c) partial device stacks of PEABr-FASnI 3 with different ETLs. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. (a) Schematic representation of charge-transfer absorption at the Sn-based perovskite/fullerene interface. (b) Photovoltaic external quantum efficiency (EQE PV ) measured with Fourier transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS). In the region below 1.2 eV, CT absorption is visible when the PCBM is used as the ETL. The dotted lines indicate the energy difference between the VB-LUMO of the ICBA and PCBM. (c) Electroluminescence spectra of Sn-based PSCs with an additive and different ETLs. 
 Table 1 . 1 Photovoltaic Parameters of the Best-Performing Sn-Based PSCs additive ETL PCE, % V oc , V FF, % J sc , mA/cm 2 W/O PCBM 3.5 0.38 50 18 ICBA 5.8 0.57 57 15 PEAI PCBM 5 0.59 54.4 15.5 ICBA 8.2 0.65 66.4 18.9 PEABr PCBM 5.2 0.49 58 17 ICBA 9.1 0.68 65 20.6 
 A part of these nonradiative losses can be attributed to the Sn-perovskite/ETL interface: The detection of subgap CT absorption in the case of a PCBM ETL coincides with a large increase in nonradiative recombination in comparison to an ICBA ETL, where CT absorption is absent. This points to Snperovskite/fullerene CT states as sources for nonradiative recombination. This work shows that the properties and energetics of the charge-transfer states at the Sn-perovskite/ fullerene interface can be manipulated to reduce the nonradiative recombination phenomenon and enhance the PCE of the Sn-based PSCs. FASnI 3 films and their decomposition into Sn 2+ and Sn 4+ contributions following a fitting procedure, and relative atomic concentration of Sn2+  and Sn 4+ for each perovskite film surface (PDF) Institute for Materials Research (IMO-IMOMEC), Hasselt University, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium Derese Desta -Institute for Materials Research (IMO-IMOMEC), Hasselt University, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium Sigurd Mertens -Institute for Materials Research (IMO-IMOMEC), Hasselt University, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium Melissa Van Landeghem -Institute for Materials Research ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Author Koen Vandewal -Institute for Materials Research (IMO- IMOMEC), Hasselt University, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; IMEC Division, IMOMEC, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; * sı Supporting Information ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT orcid.org/0000-0001-5471-383X; Email: koen.vandewal@uhasselt.be The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsaem.3c03086. Schematic diagram of Sn-based perovskite film preparation, PLQY of PEABr-FASnI 3 perovskite films on glass, ITO/PEDOT:PSS, and ITO/PEDOT:PSS/Sn-perovskite/ICBA (or PCBM)/BCP from either the glass side or ITO side, XPS Sn-3d 5/2 core-level spectra of FASnI 3 , PEAI-FASnI 3 , and PEABr-Authors Fatemeh Zargar -(IMO-IMOMEC), Hasselt University, 3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; orcid.org/0000-0001-8927-5358 
 Table 2 . 2 Parameters Measured and Calculated for Quantifying Nonradiative Recombination Losses perovskite ETL E g (eV) V oc (V) E g /q -V oc V oc rad (V) ΔV oc,cal nrad (V) EQE EL,cal EQE EL ΔV oc nrad (V) PEABr-FASnI 3 PCBM 1.44 0.49 0.95 1.18 0.69 1.8 × 10 -12 PEABr-FASnI 3 ICBA 1.44 0.68 0.76 1.19 0.51 2.0 × 10 -9 <10 -7 0.41 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.3c03086 ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2024, 7, 3618-3626 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 26, 2025 at 06:59:51 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.3c03086 ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2024, 7, 3618-3626 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.3c03086
