Paper #: 3210_1
Title: Suppressing Interfacial Contact Energetics with Ultrathin Organic Passivation in Hysteresis-Free Lead-Halide Perovskite Transistors

Figure S1 . S1 Figure S1. Normalized UV-Vis absorption spectra of pristine and passivated MAPbI 3 films 
 Figure S2 .Figure S3 . S2S3 Figure S2. Representative output characteristics of P(NDI2OD-T2)-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs.
Paper #: 3210_2
Title: Suppressing Interfacial Contact Energetics with Ultrathin Organic Passivation in Hysteresis-Free Lead-Halide Perovskite Transistors
Recent years have seen considerable efforts dedicated to perovskite field-effect transistors driven by the ability to favorably modulate microstructural properties and device performance through interface and additive engineering. However, metal halide perovskite semiconductors typically exhibit structural disorders at grain boundaries and ionic defects. In this study, we demonstrate that surface passivation with an ultrathin organic semiconductor can effectively suppress interfacial contact energetics at the perovskite-metal contact electrode interface in lead halide perovskite transistors without adversely affecting film crystallinity. Our ultrathin organic surface-passivated methylammonium lead iodide (MAPbI 3 ) perovskite fieldeffect transistors exhibit stable repeated measurement cycles with an electron mobility enhancement exceeding 100% compared to unpassivated control devices. Chemical and structural investigations revealed that the diluted, solution-processed organic semiconductors integrate within the grain boundaries. This integration results in improved perovskite film crystallinity, enhanced injection properties, and effective passivation of surface defects at the metal-perovskite interface. These findings are supported by photoluminescence, X-ray, and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy measurements. This study advances the understanding of contact reaction-induced defects and operational instabilities in lead halide perovskite field-effect transistors and related devices.
INTRODUCTION Metal halide perovskites have recently emerged as one of the most extensively investigated semiconductor materials, surpassing their counterparts, such as organic semiconductors, amorphous silicon, metal oxides, and carbon nanotubes.  [1] [2] [3]  Despite their growing popularity, the fabrication of perovskitebased electronic, optoelectronic, and bioelectronic devices, including chemical sensors, light-emitting diodes, field-effect transistors (FETs), photovoltaics, phototransistors, memory, and neuromorphic devices, is challenged by their inherent ionic defects. Addressing these challenges requires meticulous control over perovskite film morphology, optimization of device structure, and development of effective, robust interfaces.  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11]  In perovskite solar cells, interface engineering has been pivotal in enhancing device performance and achieving operational and environmental stability.  [12] [13] [14] [15]  Similarly, interfacial and contact engineering are crucial in advancing the performance of organic FETs and emerging perovskite FETs.  3, 16  In conventional FETs, three critical interfaces�the contact electrode/semiconductor interface, the semiconductor/dielectric interface, and the dielectric/ gate electrode interface, significantly influence charge injection and transport. Although charge transport predominantly occurs at the semiconductor/dielectric interface, the energy level alignment of metal contacts with the perovskite semiconductor layer is essential for efficient charge transport and stable device operation. Among various perovskite materials subjected to compositional engineering, methylammonium lead iodide (MAPbI 3 ) is known to possess mobile point defects, including charged vacancies and interstitials of methylammonium cations and iodine anions.  17, 18  These defects can induce device instabilities and act as nonradiative recombination centers. Therefore, device operational instabilities in MAPbI 3 -based devices are attributable to complex ion migration and electrochemical processes, particularly due to the interaction of MAPbI 3 with metal surfaces.  19, 20  Recently, Zhang et al. investigated n-type perovskite (Cs 0.05 FA 0.17 MA 0.78 PbI 3 ) FETs over multiple measurement cycles, focusing on the impact of different metal contact electrodes and precursor stoichiometry.  20  They observed that the channel current increases with high work-function metals and decreases with low work-function metals. This variation was found to be sensitive to the precursor stoichiometry. Electron microscopy analysis revealed the n-type doping effect of metallic ions produced by electrochemical interactions at the metal/semiconductor interface, which migrate into the transistor channel. This analysis also linked metal/stoichiometry-dependent device nonidealities with the quenching of photoluminescence (PL) near the positively biased electrode, underscoring the need for further investigation into the origins of nonidealities and contact reaction-induced device instabilities in perovskite FETs and related devices. In this study, we demonstrate the suppression of interfacial contact energetics in lead halide perovskite transistors via surface passivation with ultrathin organic semiconductors, including poly{[N,N′-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-naphthalene-1,4,5,8bis(dicarboximide)-2,6-diyl]-alt-5,5′-(2,2′-bithiophene)} (P-(NDI2OD-T2)), phenyl-C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), and poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT). The ultrathin organic surface-passivated MAPbI 3 perovskite FETs exhibited stable, multiple measurement cycles with an electron mobility enhancement exceeding 100% compared with unpassivated control devices. These improvements are attributed to enhanced film crystallinity, better injection properties, and effective passivation of A-site cation and Xsite anion defects at the metal-perovskite interface. 
 EXPERIMENTAL SECTION 2.1. Materials. P3HT (regioregular, M n = 54-75 kDa), P(NDI2OD-T2) (M n = 50-100 kDa), chlorobenzene (anhydrous, 99.8%), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) (anhydrous, 99.8%), and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) (anhydrous, ≥99.9%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. PCBM was obtained from 1-Material. Lead iodide (PbI 2 ) (99.99%, trace metals basis) was sourced from the Tokyo Chemical Industry. Methylammonium iodide (MAI) was acquired from Great Cell Solar. All materials were used as received. 2.2. Device Fabrication. We fabricated a bottom-gate topcontact (BGTC) structure on an n-doped Si substrate measuring 25 × 25 mm. The hafnium(IV) oxide (HfO 2 ) dielectric layer was deposited using thermal atomic layer deposition (ALD) (Nexusbe, Nexus MiniTM) along with ozone (O 3 ) as an oxygen source at 250 °C, at the Korea Institute of Industrial Technology, Ansan. The deposited dielectric layers consisted of a 40 nm thick HfO 2 gate dielectric layer on Si substrates, exhibiting a capacitance of ∼270 nF cm -2 . Prior to application of the perovskite film, the HfO 2 /Si substrates were subjected to UV-ozone surface treatment for 30 min. The MAPbI 3 perovskite precursor solution (0.2 M in a DMF:DMSO mixture, ratio 4:1 vol/vol) was spin-coated at 1000 rpm for 10 s and then at 4000 rpm for 25 s onto the HfO 2 /Si substrates. Six seconds before the end of the spincoating process, 200 μL of chlorobenzene was applied to the perovskite surface. The MAPbI 3 perovskite films were annealed at 65 °C for 3 min and subsequently at 100 °C for 10 min in a nitrogen-filled glovebox. Afterward, an organic semiconductor solution (P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, P3HT) at a concentration of 1 mg mL -1 in chlorobenzene was spin-coated at 1500 rpm for 30 s and thermally annealed at 100 °C for 20 min. Finally, 40 nm-thick Au source and drain electrodes were thermally evaporated onto the structure using a metal shadow mask to complete the FET devices. The channel width and length of the devices were 1000 and 50 μm, respectively. 
 Characterization. The surface film morphologies were investigated by using atomic force microscopy (AFM) (XE-100, psia) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (JSM-7100F). The optical properties of the organically passivated perovskite films were measured via ultravioletvisible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy (Lambda 20, PerkinElmer). Steady-state PL measurements were conducted by using a fluorescence spectrophotometer (Agilent Cary Eclipse, Varian). X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses were performed with an Ultima IV (Rigaku). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) measurements were carried out using a PHI 5000 VersaProbe-II (ULVAC-PHI). All current-voltage characteristics were recorded using a semiconductor parameter analyzer (Keithley 4200-SCS) in air, at room temperature, under a relative humidity of approximately 30%. The mobility and threshold voltages were extracted by using the gradual channel approximation. 
 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 Microstructures of the Perovskite Films Passivated with Organic Semiconductors. To examine the physical and morphological microstructure properties of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 perovskite films, we conducted measurements using UV-Vis spectroscopy, AFM, SEM, PL, and XRD. Figure  1  shows the UV-Vis absorption spectra of pristine MAPbI 3 , P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, P3HT, and MAPbI 3 films passivated with these organic semiconductors. The MAPbI 3 perovskite films coated with ultrathin (∼5 nm) organic semiconductors exhibited absorption spectra similar to those of their pristine counterpart. This similarity indicates that the structural properties of the perovskite layers remain largely unperturbed, contrasting with those passivated with thicker (>50 nm) organic semiconductor films (Figure  S1 ). The AFM and SEM images (Figure  2a, b ) revealed that the morphological microstructures of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 films have dense film nanostructures with a comparable root-meansquare roughness (R q ). The XRD patterns of these films (Figure  2c ) displayed intense peaks at 14.2°, 28.5°, and 32.0°, corresponding to the (110), (220), and (310) planes of the MAPbI 3 perovskite phase, respectively. To investigate the charge-accepting capabilities at the perovskite-organic interface, we analyzed the PL quenching of the perovskite emission. Efficient charge extraction at this interface, evidenced by effective PL quenching, is indicative of enhanced chargeaccepting capabilities.  21, 22  The ultrathin organic passivation layers significantly quenched the perovskite emission signal, as demonstrated by the PL spectra (Figure  2d ). Notably, P(NDI2OD-T2) was less effective in PL quenching compared to P3HT. Considering the different lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) levels (-4.02 eV for P-(NDI2OD-T2), -3.70 eV for PCBM, and -3.00 eV for P3HT and the conduction band minimum (CBM) for MAPbI 3 is around -3.92 eV, the organic semiconductor could form either straddling-gap heterojunctions or staggered-gap heterojunctions with the MAPbI 3 .  22  This explains the less quenched PL in the MAPbI 3 /P(NDI2OD-T2) sample, preserving the majority of the photocarriers, compared to the strongly quenched MAPbI 3 /P3HT sample, indicating that the photocarriers in MAPbI 3 would be effectively extracted from MAPbI 3 . These observations of enhanced film crystallinity and PL quenching capabilities in MAPbI 3 films with ultrathin P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT layers suggest potential improvements in charge carrier transport for transistor devices. 3.2. Electrical Characteristics of the Organic-Passivated Perovskite FETs. Figure  3  illustrates the electrical characteristics of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 FETs with P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT ultrathin films, using a BGTC structure (Figure  3a ). Figure  3b  depicts the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels of the P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors. In this study, we focused on the MAPbI 3 perovskite composition due to its extensive research history in transistors and solar cell optoelectronic devices since 2013, along with its stable charge transport characteristics at room temperature.  [23] [24] [25]  Ion migration has significantly impacted the performance of MAPbI 3 FETs, as evidenced by their relatively low room temperature mobility values, typically below 10 -4 cm 2 V -1 s -1 .  [23] [24] [25]  As demonstrated in Figure  3c -f, the P(NDI2OD-T2)-, PCBM-, and P3HT-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs exhibited improved charge transport characteristics with enhanced electron mobility compared to the control device at room temperature (relative humidity of ∼30%). The FET devices were swept at a gate voltage scanned rate of 0.45 V s -1 at 0.5 V/step. We observed hysteresis-free transfer characteristics in MAPbI 3 FETs, a feature commonly seen in HfO 2 -gated perovskite transistors.  26, 27  Figures  S2  and S3  display the typical output characteristics and gate leakage currents of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 FETs. The output characteristics of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 FETs exhibited typical saturating behavior with I D offset at V D = 0 V (Figure  S2 ), which would be attributed to the contact resistance and the relatively high leakage current levels.  27  Among the tested organic semiconductors, the P(NDI2OD-T2)-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs demonstrated the most significant charge transport enhancement, achieving an electron mobility of ∼0.04 cm 2 V -1 s -1 exceeding that of the control devices (∼0.01 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) at room temperature. We extracted trap density (N tr ) from the respective FETs using the subthreshold swing (SS) based on the following equation: = × [ ] N e kT q C q SS log / 1 tr Ä Ç Å Å Å Å Å Å Å Å Å Å É Ö Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ Ñ where k is the Boltzmann's constant, q is the electron charge, T is the absolute temperature, and e is the base of the natural logarithm. From Figure  3c -f, we extracted the N tr values of 1.60 × 10 13 cm -2 eV -1 (SS = 0.61 V dec -1 ), 5.36 × 10 12 cm -2 eV -1 (SS = 0.24 V dec -1 ), 2.12 × 10 13 cm -2 eV -1 (SS = 0.76 V dec -1 ), and 2.12 × 10 13 cm -2 eV -1 (SS = 0.79 V dec -1 ) for the control MAPbI 3 and MAPbI 3 FETs passivated with P-(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT, respectively. Furthermore, by using the Y-function method,  [28] [29] [30]  we extracted relatively lower contact resistance (R c ) of 20.8 ± 6.3 kΩ cm for the P(NDI2OD-T2)-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs; the R c is 51.8 ± 5.1, 42.9 ± 8.5, and 120.3 ± 22.6 kΩ cm for the control MAPbI 3 FETs, PCBM-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs and P3HTpassivated MAPbI 3 FETs, respectively. Recent studies have demonstrated that contact reactions at the metal-semiconductor interface significantly influence the charge transport and operational stability of lead halide perovskite FETs.  19, 20  To investigate the effect of interfacial passivation on the operational stability of our devices, we measured the bias stress stability of the organically passivated MAPbI 3 FETs over six consecutive measurement cycles. As illustrated in Figure  3g-j , the P(NDI2OD-T2)-, PCBM-, and P3HT-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs exhibited stable characteristics with negligible on-current decay. In contrast, the control MAPbI 3 FETs exhibited significant on-current degradation from the second cycle onward, gradually deteriorating due to energetic contactinduced defects at the metal-perovskite interface. The bias- stable characteristics observed in the multiple measurement cycles of the organic semiconductor-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs could result from suppressed interfacial contact energetics within these transistor devices.  21  3.3. Passivation Dynamics and Energetic Alignment of Organic-Passivated Perovskites. To investigate the defect passivation and contact energetic alignment capabilities of MAPbI 3 with ultrathin organic passivation, we conducted XPS and UPS measurements. As depicted in Figure  4a ,b, the surface chemical properties of the MAPbI 3 films, specifically in the Pb 4f and I 3d peak profiles, exhibited a consistent chemical shift toward lower binding energies when passivated with P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT ultrathin films. Notably, a negative shift of -0.44 eV was observed in the Pb 4f peaks for the P(NDI2OD-T2)-, PCBM-, and P3HT-passivated MAPbI 3 films (Figure  4a ). Similarly, the I 3d peaks showed a shift of -0.42 eV in these passivated films (Figure  4b ). Moreover, the Pb 0 metallic peaks, shown in the control MAPbI 3 film, were not observed in films with ultrathin organic passivation, indicating the effective elimination of unbound sites and excellent defect passivation tendencies. This passivation of surface traps and the disappearance of Pb 0 metallic peaks in the organically passivated perovskite films, as evidenced by XPS and UPS measurements, could facilitate efficient charge transport in the transistor channel. Figure  4c  presents the UPS results for the organically passivated MAPbI 3 films, examining the onset of secondary electron emission (left) and the edge of the valence band maximum (VBM) band (right). The vacuum level (VL) of the secondary emission cutoff in the organically passivated MAPbI 3 films shifted to lower binding energies, with P(NDI2OD-T2) showing the largest VL shift compared to P3HT. Corresponding shifts in the VBM level relative to the Fermi level of Au were also observed in the P(NDI2OD-T2)-, PCBM-, and P3HTpassivated MAPbI 3 films. Figure  4d  illustrates the VBM and conduction band minimum (CBM) for the control and organically passivated MAPbI 3 films with P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT. These collaborative investigations into energy levels and interfacial properties suggest that efficient passivation of A-site and X-site defects, along with enhanced interactions between perovskite and organic semiconductors in the passivated MAPbI 3 films, contribute to suppressed interfacial contact energetics in repeated measurement cycles and superior performance with stable operation in transistor devices. 
 CONCLUSIONS We have demonstrated that the interfacial contact energies between lead halide perovskite/metal surfaces can be effectively suppressed using a surface passivation approach with ultrathin organic semiconductors without compromising film crystallinity. Compared to the unpassivated control devices, our ultrathin organic-passivated MAPbI 3 perovskite FETs exhibit stable performance across multiple measurement cycles, with an electron mobility improvement of over 100% in the P(NDI2OD-T2)-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs. Measurements utilizing PL, XPS, and UPS corroborate the results of the chemical and structural analysis. These results demonstrate that the diluted solution-processed organic semiconductors integrate within the grain boundaries, enhancing injection properties and effectively passivating surface defects at the metal contact-perovskite interfaces. These findings reveal the potential for suppressing operational instabilities and contact reaction-induced defects in lead halide perovskite FETs and related devices.  Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. Normalized UV-Vis absorption spectra of (a) P(NDI2OD-T2), MAPbI 3 /P(NDI2OD-T2), and MAPbI 3 films, (b) PCBM, MAPbI 3 / PCBM, and MAPbI 3 films, and (c) P3HT, MAPbI 3 /P3HT, and MAPbI 3 films. Ultrathin organic film (∼5 nm) was deposited from a solution of 1 mg mL -1 . Insets of (a), (b), and (c) are the molecular structures of P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors, respectively. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) AFM images, (b) top-surface SEM images, (c) XRD spectra, and (d) PL spectra of the control MAPbI 3 and MAPbI 3 films passivated with ultrathin P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a) Schematic of the control and organic-passivated FET devices. (b) HOMO and LUMO energy levels of P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors. Transfer and mobility characteristics of (c) control MAPbI 3 FETs (unpassivated) and (d-f) organic-passivated FETs with P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT semiconductors (V D = 10 V). Transfer characteristics of the control and organic-passivated MAPbI 3 FETs for six consecutive measurement cycles: (g) control, (h) P(NDI2OD-T2)-, (i) PCBM-, and (j) P3HT-passivated devices (V D = 10 V). 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. (a) Pb 4f and (b) I 3d XPS plots and (c) UPS plots of the control and passivated MAPbI 3 films with ultrathin P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors. (d) CBM and VBM energy levels of the control and passivated MAPbI 3 films with ultrathin P(NDI2OD-T2), PCBM, and P3HT organic semiconductors. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsapm.4c00430 ACS Appl. Polym. Mater. 2024, 6, 5747-5753 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 22, 2025 at 18:56:04 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsapm.4c00430 ACS Appl. Polym. Mater. 2024, 6, 5747-5753
