Paper #: 8835_1
Title: Tailored multifunctional hydrazine derivatives for efficient printable hole-conductive-free mesoscopic perovskite solar cells via enhancing defect passivation
The low-cost and easy large-scale fabrication advantages of printable mesoscopic perovskite solar cells (p-MPSCs) are overshadowed by their limited photovoltaic conversion efficiency (PCE). Here, we introduce the hydrazide derivative of 4-Hydroxybenzoylhydrazine (4-HBH) to improve the PCE of p-MPSCs by inducing enhanced defect passivation. Both carbonyl and hydrazine groups in hydrazide groups present strong interaction with perovskite. The hydroxyl group, as an electron donor group, increases the electron cloud density of the hydrazide group in 4-HBH under the conjugation of the benzene ring, and thus enhances its interaction with perovskite. Additionally, the hydroxy group itself interacts with perovskite and passivates defects synergistically. The hydrazine agents can also reduce I 2 and suppress the loss of iodine in perovskite films, which inhibits the formation of iodine-related defects. Consequently, p-MPSCs with 4-HBH achieve a high PCE of 19.21%, and present well improved stability.
Introduction Optoelectronic devices based on organic-inorganic metal halide perovskite materials which possess excellent optoelectronic properties and can be prepared with low cost have garnered significant attention from both the scientific community and the industry  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . Since 2009, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of perovskite solar cells (PSCs) has been rapidly increased from 3.8%  [6]  to 26.1%  [7] . PSCs possess different embodiments such as the mesoscopic one and the planar one. Among these structures, fully printable hole-conductor-free carbon-based mesoscopic perovskite solar cells (p-MPSCs) offer advantages such as easy large-scale fabrication and high stability  [8, 9] . In p-MPSCs, perovskite is infiltrated into a scaffold composed of mesoporous TiO 2 (mp-TiO 2 )/mesoporous ZrO 2 (mp-ZrO 2 )/porous carbon  [10] [11] [12] . TiO 2 serves as the electron transport layer, while carbon acts as the back electrode and hole collector. ZrO 2 is an insulating layer to separate the electron transport layer and the back electrode  [13] [14] [15] [16] . In comparison to other PSCs, p-MPSCs do not require expensive hole transport layers and replace costly metal back electrodes with inexpensive carbon electrodes  [17] [18] [19] [20] . Furthermore, all fabrication processes for p-MPSCs are carried out in ambient air, which facilitates large-scale production and manufacturing  [21] . However, p-MPSCs exhibit lower PCE than other PSCs, primarily due to significant voltage losses  [22, 23] . The absence of a hole transport layer and the abundance of defective interfaces or boundaries result in pronounced charge recombination in the device  [24, 25] . Consequently, the open-circuit voltage (V OC ) of p-MPSCs (0.85-0.95 V) is lower than that of traditional PSCs (above 1.15 V)  [26] [27] [28] [29] . Various defect passivation strategies have been developed to obtain high-quality, low-defect perovskite absorber layers for conventional PSCs  [30] [31] [32] [33] . Among them, the most common method involves introducing additives (such as halides, ionic liquids, amines, or ammonium salts) into the precursor solution. This approach can enhance the performance of PSCs by improving perovskite crystallization or passivating defects within the perovskite  [34] [35] [36] [37] . For instance, Chen's team introduced N-succinimidyl 6maleimidohexanoate (NSMH), which has multiple active sites and a hydrophobic alkyl chain, into the perovskite precursor solution to passivate uncoordinated Pb 2+ via the strong coordination with C@O, and obtained improved crystallinity, reduced defect density and well improved PCE from 20.67% to 22.40%  [38] . Liu's team introduced a novel small molecule based on indacenodithiophene (IDT) units, called IDT-oxindole (OD), with a symmetrical acceptor-donor-acceptor (A-D-A) configuration, into perovskite to passivate defects and facilitate charge transfer and extraction. The as-prepared device achieved a PCE of 24.04% and demonstrated excellent environmental and thermal stability  [39] . Liu's team conducted a comparative analysis of nicotinamide (NA) and its derivative 6-methyl-nicotinamide (CNA) with an electrondonating functional group of ACH 3 in the para position. They demonstrated that CNA exhibited enhanced coordination interactions with uncoordinated Pb 2+ in perovskite due to its larger molecular dipole and thus promoted the formation of highquality, low-defect density, and smooth surface perovskite films. Devices with CNA achieved a remarkable PCE of 24.33%  [40] . Among numerous passivating molecules, organic materials with C@O groups passivate uncoordinated Pb 2+ in the perovskite film through Lewis acid-base reactions, resulting in high-quality and low-defect density perovskite films. However, the passivation effect of a single functional group is limited. As seen from the literature above, the synergistic coordination of multiple functional groups can passivate different types of defects in the perovskite and lead to better passivation effects and higher PCE. Additionally, the distribution of functional group electron clouds and molecular structures significantly influence the passivation effect. Hence, tailoring the molecular structure and electron cloud density of additives is crucial for realizing high-performance PSCs  [40] . On the other hand, during the preparation process of perovskite films, the iodide ions (I À ) in the organic components are easily oxidized. Once I À is oxidized to I 2 , the precursor decomposes, generating more iodine-related defects and severely impacting the device's performance and stability. Han's team introduced the reductive natural amino acid of N-acetylcysteine (NALC) with both the acidic carboxyl group and the reductive sulfhydryl group to stabilize the mixed-cation FA/MA perovskite precursor. By suppressing precursor degradation and passivating film defects, the employment of NALC in the precursor improved the PCE of p-MPSCs from 16.16% to 18.41%  [41] . Chen's team developed a perovskite stabilization and defect passivation strategy using the reductive 3-hydrazinobenzoic acid (3-HBA) additive which contains carboxyl (ACOOH) and hydrazine (ANHNH 2 ) functional groups. The ANHNH 2 in 3-HBA reduces I 2 back to I À . Simultaneously, the ACOOH in 3-HBA acts as a weak acid and produces H + through a reversible ionization reaction. The formed H + inhibits the deprotonation of organic cations and subsequent amine cation reactions. The synergistic action of ANHNH 2 and ACOOH inhibits the precursor decomposition  [42] . The fabrication of p-MPSCs occurs in ambient air, making them more susceptible to erosion by water and oxygen. Developing multifunctional molecules with reductive properties to suppress non-radiative recombination in perovskite and the oxidation of iodides is highly meaningful. In this study, the conjugated aromatic ring-containing acylhydrazine derivatives of 4-Hydroxybenzoylhydrazine (4-HBH), which contains both ANHNH 2 and C@O, was developed to stabilize the precursor and passivate defects for p-MPSCs. The carbonyl and hydrazine groups demonstrated synergistic passivation effect for perovskite. The conjugated nature of the benzene ring allows the electrons from the electron-donating group of hydroxyl on the benzene ring to be shared with the acylhydrazine group, which enhances the electron cloud density of the acylhydrazine group. This strengthens its coordination with perovskite. The hydroxyl group itself together with the acylhydrazine group also interacts with the perovskite and synergistically passivates defects. Additionally, the reductive nature of the acylhydrazine group inhibits the oxidation of I À , and thus suppresses the decomposition of the perovskite precursor and the formation of iodine-related defects. Consequently, devices incorporating 4-HBH achieved a high PCE of 19.21% together with improved stability. As shown in Fig.  2 (a), adding 4-HBH or BH into the DMF solution of I 2 makes the solution change from yellow to colorless. UV-visible absorption spectroscopy was performed on the solution to verify the color change (Fig.  2a ). I 2 in DMF presents an absorption peak at 370 nm. Upon the introduction of 4-HBH or BH, the peak related to I 2 disappeared, which indicates that hydrazide reduced I 2 . X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) tests were conducted to calculate the I/Pb ratio in perovskite prepared without and with BH or 4-HBH (Fig.  2b ). Adding BH and 4-HBH increases the I/Pb ratio from 2.63 to 2.73 and 2.90, respectively. This confirms that BH and 4-HBH inhibit the loss of iodine in perovskite films probably by preventing the formation of I 2 in the precursor. Meanwhile, the effect of 4-HBH is superior to BH, which is ascribed to the existence of the hydroxyl group on the benzene ring. As an electron-donating group, AOH increases the electron cloud density of the hydrazide group under the conjugation effect of the benzene ring, thereby enhancing the reducibility of the hydrazide group for inhibiting the generation of I 2 and averting the iodine deficit in the as-prepared perovskite. 
 Results and discussion 
 The action of hydrazine derivatives The interaction between perovskite and BH or 4-HBH was characterized using XPS, and the results are shown in Figs.  2(c)  and S1 . The peaks at 138.75 and 143.65 eV in the PbI 2 sample correspond to 4f 7/2 and 4f 5/2 orbitals of Pb, respectively, while the peaks at 619.60 and 631.08 eV correspond to 3d 5/2 and 3d 3/2 orbitals of I. After adding BH and 4-HBH, the respective peaks shifted to 138.53 and 143.43, 138.45 and 143.35 eV. XPS results indicate an increase in the outer electron cloud density of Pb, suggesting an interaction between BH, 4-HBH, and PbI 2 . 4-HBH induced larger peak shifts than BH. Similar shifting trends were observed in the binding energies of iodine orbitals. In addition, from the XPS spectra (Fig.  S2 ) of N 1s and O 1s , it can be observed that upon the addition of PbI 2 to BH or 4-HBH, the peaks of N 1s and O 1s shifted by 0.19 and 0.23 eV, or 0.30 and 0.42 eV, respectively. The peak shift in 4-HBH is significantly larger than that in BH. Therefore, compared with BH, the synergistic coordination of the hydroxyl and acylhydrazine groups enhances the coordination of 4-HBH with perovskite. Liquid-state 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) was employed to confirm the interaction between BH or 4-HBH and perovskite. As shown in Fig.  2(d-h ), the chemical shifts for ANHA and ANH 2 were observed at 9.76 and 4.49 ppm in BH, respectively. After adding PbI 2 , the chemical shifts shifted to 10.19 and 4.85 ppm. The shift was ascribed to the electron cloud density decrease of ANHA and ANH 2 , and indicated a strong interaction between BH and PbI 2 . However, upon adding FAI and MAI, the chemical shifts of BH showed minimal shifts, which suggested no significant interaction between BH and the organic components of the perovskite. In 4-HBH, after adding PbI 2 , FAI, and MAI, the chemical shifts of ANH and ANH 2 exhibited similar shifts as BH. The results indicate that there is also a strong interaction between 4-HBH and PbI 2 . Moreover, compared to BH, the chemical shifts of ANHA and ANH 2 in 4-HBH shift to higher field positions. This indicates that upon the addition of AOH, the electron cloud density around ANHA and ANH 2 increases as expected. This observation  is consistent with the results obtained from the electrostatic potential (ESP) map (Fig.  S3 ), where the electron cloud density of the hydrazide group in 4-HBH is greater than that in BH. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) was also conducted to elucidate the interaction between BH, 4-HBH, and perovskite. As shown in Fig.  2(i-l ), the stretching vibration peak (SVP) of NAH, the bending vibration peak (BVP) of NAH, and the SVP of C@O in BH were located at 3299 À1 , 1488 À1 and 1614 cm À1 , respectively. After adding PbI 2 , these peaks shifted to 3282 cm À1 (À17 cm À1 ), 1484 cm À1 (À4 cm À1 ) and 1601 cm À1 (À13 cm À1 ). Additionally, in 4-HBH, the SVP of NAH, the BVP of NAH, the SVP of OAH, and the SVP of C@O were located at 3274, 1510, 3310, and 1621 cm À1 . After adding PbI 2 , these peaks shifted to 3239 cm À1 (À35 cm À1 ), 1499 cm À1 (À11 cm À1 ), 3296 cm À1 (À14 cm À1 ), and 1605 cm À1 (À16 cm À1 ). The significant shifts in these peaks indicate a strong interaction between BH and PbI 2 . Comparatively, in 4-HBH, the peak shifts were noticeably larger. The above results confirm that introducing the AOH electrondonating group effectively enhanced the interaction between the hydrazide derivative modulator and perovskite. It is not only because AOH increased the electron cloud density of the hydrazide group under the conjugation effect of the benzene ring, but also because AOH itself can interact with PbI 2 . Moreover, the hydrazide and the AOH groups were in the para-position, which results in smaller steric hindrance and makes it easier to interact with PbI 2 . 
 Perovskite film The interaction induced by BH and 4-HBH modulated the crystallization of perovskite as verified by X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Fig.  3a ). The diffraction peaks at 13.93°and 28.19°c orrespond to the (1 0 0), (2 0 0) crystal planes of the perovskite, respectively. BH and 4-HBH effectively enhanced the intensities of diffraction peaks at (1 0 0) and (2 0 0), which confirms that BH and 4-HBH promoted crystallization. Consistently, the absorbance of perovskite films was enhanced by BH and 4-HBH (Fig.  3b ). Space-charge-limited current (SCLC) samples with the structure of ITO/Sn 2 O 3 /perovskite/PCBM/Ag were prepared and tested to quantitatively evaluate the defect density in the perovskite film without and with BH or 4-HBH (Fig.  3c ). The SCLC curves were divided into three regions: ohmic, trap-filled limit (TFL), and trap-free SCLC regions. After adding BH and 4-HBH, the trapfilled limit voltage (V TFL ) of the devices was decreased from 0.277 to 0.252 and 0.217 V. The corresponding defect density was calculated to be 4.11 Â 10 15 , 3.74 Â 10 15 , and 3.23 Â 10 15 cm À3 . This indicates that BH and 4-HBH reduced the trap density in per- ovskite. BH and 4-HBH also affected the energy band structure of the perovskite film as verified by ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) (Fig.  S4 ). After adding 4-HBH, the valence band (VB) of the perovskite film was increased from À5.68 to À5.64 eV. Additionally, the Fermi level was decreased from À4.20 eV to À4.41 eV, indicating a reduction in iodine-related ntype doping defects, consistent with the defect passivation ability of 4-HBH. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was employed to characterize the surface potential of perovskite before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH (Fig.  S5 ). After the introduction of BH and 4-HBH, there was a significant increase in the surface potential of the perovskite. We then investigated the influence of BH and 4-HBH on carrier recombination and transport in perovskite films. Steady-state photoluminescence (SSPL) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements were performed. As shown in Fig.  S6 , BH and 4-HBH led to higher PL intensity for the perovskite films deposited on the insulating ZrO 2 substrate but lower PL intensity for the perovskite films deposited on the TiO 2 electron transport layer. As shown in Figs.  3(d) , S7, and Table  S1 , BH and 4-HBH increased the carrier lifetime of perovskite on ZrO 2 from 74.4 to 134.1 and 228.9 ns, but decreased the carrier lifetime of perovskite on TiO 2 from 7.9 to 6.3 and 3.3 ns. The SSPL and TRPL results suggest that BH and 4-HBH suppressed non-radiative recombination in perovskite and promoted charge transfer between perovskite and TiO 2 , which is ascribed to enhanced crystallinity, passivated defects and modulated energy level alignment. 
 Device performance The J-V curves of p-MPSCs with and without the addition of BH and 4-HBH are shown in Fig.  4(a) . The control device presented a PCE of 17.64%, V OC of 933 mV, J SC of 24.17 mAÁcm À2 , and FF of 0.78. After adding BH, the device exhibited an enhanced PCE of 18.16%, V OC of 959 mV, J SC of 24.23 mA cm À2 , and FF of 0.78. Upon adding 4-HBH, the device achieved the highest PCE of 19.21%, V OC of 996 mV, J SC of 24.82 mA cm À2 , and FF of 0.78. The photovoltaic parameters for devices with and without BH and 4-HBH are also statistically presented in Figs.  4(b, c ) and S8. BH and 4-HBH increased the average PCE from 16.71% to 17.30% and 17.91%, respectively. From the external quantum efficiency (EQE) results (Fig.  S9 ), the integrated current of the 4-HBH device is 23.91 mA cm À2 , which is consistent with the J SC from the J-V curve. Steady-state power output curves (Fig.  4d ) were measured under continuous illumination for 1000 s. After 1000 s of continuous illumination, the device with 4-HBH showed no decrease in PCE, while both BH and control devices exhibited a significant PCE decrease, which indicates that 4-HBH enhances the toughness of the device against light soaking. The stability of unencapsulated p-MPSCs was further tested, and the results are shown in Fig.  4(e) . After being stored in the dark at a relative humidity of 50%-60%, the devices with 4-HBH and BH maintained 95% and 80% of their initial PCE after 1200 h, while the control device maintained only 70% of its initial PCE after 720 h. The influence of BH and 4-HBH on charge recombination and transfer processes in p-MPSCs without and with BH or 4-HBH was evaluated via the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) (Fig.  5a ). The first semicircle in the high-frequency range was related to the charge transfer impedance of the device, and the second semicircle in the low frequency range was related to the charge recombination impedance of the device. Devices with BH and 4-HBH exhibited higher impedance in the low-frequency region, indicating a reduced charge recombination rate, thereby enhancing the V OC of the device. Devices with BH and 4-HBH exhibited lower impedance in the high-frequency region, suggesting that they can improve the charge extraction and transfer efficiency of perovskites. The V OC variations of devices under different light intensities were studied to calculate the ideality fac- tor. As shown in Fig.  5 (b), BH and 4-HBH reduced the ideality factor from 1.33 to 1.22 and 1.17, respectively. The built-in potential (V bi ) of devices without and with BH or 4-HBH was determined to be 0.897, 0.923, and 0.930 V by using the Mott-Schottky method through capacitance-voltage (C-V) measurements (Fig.  5c ). Transient photovoltage (TPV) and transient photocurrent (TPC) tests were also performed, as shown in Figs.  5(d), S10 , and Table  S2 . The photovoltage decay times for devices with BH and 4-HBH were increased from 1.11 to 2.54 and 4.71 ms while the photocurrent decay times for devices with BH and 4-HBH were decreased from 12.83 to 9.33 and 6.80 ls. The above results confirm that BH and 4-HBH facilitated the separation and transfer of photogenerated carriers, reduced non-radiative recombination, and ultimately enhanced the performance including V OC of p-MPSCs. From various perspectives, 4-HBH outperformed BH. 
 Conclusions In this study, the multifunctional hydrazine derivatives possessing both defect passivation capabilities and reducibility were employed for p-MPSCs with enhanced performance. The novel passivating agent 4-HBH containing carbonyl, hydrazine, and hydroxyl groups interacted strongly with uncoordinated Pb 2+ and I À ions through synergistic effects, thereby reducing trap density and pro-longing carrier lifetime. Additionally, the conjugation effect in the benzene ring facilitated electron sharing and enhanced the coordination ability of the acylhydrazine group with the perovskite. This increased reactivity further inhibited the oxidation of iodide ions in the perovskite, ultimately enhancing device performance and stability. Consequently, p-MPSCs with 4-HBH achieved a high PCE of 19.21%. Remarkably, even after 1200 h of exposure to ambient air, the device performance showed minimal degradation. This study provides valuable and constructive insights for expediting the design of novel passivating agents. 
 Experimental section Experimental details can be found in the Supporting Information.   
 CRediT authorship contribution statement Fig. 1 ( 1 Fig.1(a)  shows the molecular structures of Benzoylhydrazine (BH) and 4-HBH. Compared with BH, 4-HBH has an additional hydroxyl group (AOH) at the para position of the benzene ring. The introduction of AOH group is intended to enhance the interaction of the hydrazine additive with perovskite. Fig.1(b) illustrates the device structure of p-MPSCs composed of mp-TiO 2 /mp-ZrO 2 /carbon, along with schematic representations of the interactions between BH, 4-HBH, and halide perovskite. The functional groups on BH and 4-HBH are proposed to interact with the uncoordinated Pb 2+ and I À ions in the perovskite to passivate defects. Additionally, ANHNH 2 is expected to reduce I 2 to I À to slow down the decomposition of the precursor and the formation of iodinerelated defects.As shown in Fig.2(a), adding 4-HBH or BH into the DMF solution of I 2 makes the solution change from yellow to colorless. UV-visible absorption spectroscopy was performed on the solution to verify the color change (Fig.2a). I 2 in DMF presents an absorption peak at 370 nm. Upon the introduction of 4-HBH or BH, the peak related to I 2 disappeared, which indicates that hydrazide reduced I 2 . X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) tests were conducted to calculate the I/Pb ratio in perovskite prepared without and with BH or 4-HBH (Fig.2b). Adding BH and 4-HBH increases the I/Pb ratio from 2.63 to 2.73 and 2.90, respectively. This confirms that BH and 4-HBH inhibit the loss of iodine in perovskite films probably by preventing the formation of I 2 in the precursor. Meanwhile, the effect of 4-HBH is superior to BH, which is ascribed to the existence of the hydroxyl group on the benzene ring. As an electron-donating group, AOH increases the electron cloud density of the hydrazide group under the conjugation effect of the benzene ring, thereby enhancing the reducibility of the hydrazide group for inhibiting the generation of I 2 and averting the iodine deficit in the as-prepared perovskite.The interaction between perovskite and BH or 4-HBH was characterized using XPS, and the results are shown in Figs.2(c) and S1. The peaks at 138.75 and 143.65 eV in the PbI 2 sample correspond to 4f 7/2 and 4f 5/2 orbitals of Pb, respectively, while the peaks at 619.60 and 631.08 eV correspond to 3d 5/2 and 3d 3/2 orbitals of I. After adding BH and 4-HBH, the respective peaks shifted to 138.53 and 143.43, 138.45 and 143.35 eV. XPS results indicate an increase in the outer electron cloud density of Pb, suggesting an interaction between BH, 4-HBH, and PbI 2 . 4-HBH induced larger peak shifts than BH. Similar shifting trends were observed in the binding energies of iodine orbitals. In addition, from the XPS spectra (Fig.S2) of N 1s and O 1s , it can be observed that upon the addition of PbI 2 to BH or 4-HBH, the peaks of N 1s and O 1s shifted by 0.19 and 0.23 eV, or 0.30 and 0.42 eV, respectively. The peak shift in 4-HBH is significantly larger than that in BH. Therefore, compared with BH, the synergistic coordination of the hydroxyl and acylhydrazine groups enhances the coordination of 4-HBH with perovskite.Liquid-state 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) was employed to confirm the interaction between BH or 4-HBH and perovskite. As shown in Fig.2(d-h), the chemical shifts for ANHA 
 Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. (a) Molecular structures of BH and 4-HBH. (b) Diagram of p-MPSCs and schematic interactions between BH, 4-HBH, and perovskite crystals. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. (a) UV-visible absorption spectra of I 2 in DMF solution before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (b) Fitting results of the I/Pb of perovskite before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (c) XPS spectra of Pb 4f for PbI 2 before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. 1 H NMR spectra of (d, e) BH, BH + FAI@MAI, and BH + PbI 2 , (f-h) 4-HBH, 4-HBH + FAI@MAI, and 4-HBH + PbI 2 . FTIR spectra of (i, j) BH and BH + PbI 2 , (k, l) 4-HBH and 4-HBH + PbI 2 . 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. (a) XRD spectra of perovskite before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (b) UV-Vis spectra of perovskite before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (c) Dark I-V curves of electron-only devices (ITO/Sn 2 O 3 /perovskite/PCBM/Ag) before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (d) TRPL spectra of perovskite on mp-ZrO 2 layer before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. (a) Optimal J-V curves of perovskite devices before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. Statistical distribution of (b) PCE and (c) V OC of perovskite devices before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (d) Steady-state output of perovskite devices before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (e) Long-term storage stability of perovskite devices in ambient air before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. 
 Minghao Xia : Xia Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Validation, Visualization, Writing -original draft. Ziwei Zheng: Writingreview & editing. Yanjie Cheng: Writing -review & editing. Chaoyang Wang: Writing -review & editing. Zhaozhen Cui: Writing -review & editing. Guodong Zhang: Writing -review & edit- 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. (a) EIS spectra of p-MPSCs before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (b) Light intensity dependence of V OC in p-MPSCs before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (c) Mott-Schottky spectra of p-MPSCs before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH. (d) TPV spectra of p-MPSCs before and after the addition of BH and 4-HBH.
