Paper #: 8972_1
Title: A dual passivation strategy based on F/N co-doped coal-based graphene quantum dots for highefficiency carbon-based perovskite solar cells †
The defects of perovskite films themselves and the energy-level mismatch with the carbon electrode (CE) limit the power conversion efficiency (PCE) and stability of carbon-based perovskite solar cells (C-PSCs). Therefore, the defect passivation of perovskite films and energy-level modification are crucial for the further improvement of the PCE and stability of C-PSCs. Here, for the first time, a dual passivation strategy based on F/N co-doped graphene quantum dots (F/N-GQDs) derived from coal was used to passivate deep-level defects such as Pb 2+ and Pb 0 , optimize the energy-level alignment, and improve the hydrophobicity of perovskite films. The mechanism of the dual passivation strategy was systematically analyzed from the perspective of the structure and energy levels. As a result, the C-PSCs based on the dual passivation strategy obtained a PCE of 16.37%, which is 27.20% higher than that of the pristine device. Moreover, the optimized C-PSC maintains 92.5% of its initial PCE after aging for 30 days in an air atmosphere, and 68.6% of its initial PCE after heating at 60 °C for 15 days, indicating higher environmental and thermal stability. This work provides a facile, environmentally friendly and efficient strategy for improving the overall performance of C-PSCs using inexpensive coal-based F/N-GQDs.
Introduction The latest certied power conversion efficiency (PCE) of perovskite solar cells (PSCs) has soared to a remarkable 26.1%, comparable to commercial monocrystalline silicon solar cells, and they are therefore recognized as the most promising candidate for new-generation photovoltaic devices.  1, 2  However, although PSCs have achieved high PCE, the use of expensive hole transport materials (HTMs) and noble metal counter electrodes has been a detrimental factor in their actual commercialization process.  3  The work function (WF) of carbon (-5.0 eV) is close to that of gold (-5.1 eV),  4  and it has the ability to extract photogenerated holes. Moreover, carbon-based perovskite solar cells (C-PSCs) prepared with carbon instead of gold as electrodes also have the advantages of low preparation cost and superior stability and are considered to be the closest to market application. In recent years, HTM-free C-PSCs were studied extensively. So far, Pan and coworkers fabricated HTM-free C-PSCs and achieved a PCE of 19.06%.  5  Nevertheless, the PCE of HTM-free C-PSCs is still relatively low as compared with the typical PSCs using an organic HTM and noble metal electrodes, which is mainly due to the energy level mismatch of the perovskite layer/ carbon electrode (CE). At the same time, polycrystalline perovskite lms inevitably form defects at the surface and the grain boundaries (GBs) during the preparation process, which can serve as nonradiative recombination centers and channels for fast oxygen and moisture invasion from the environment to the perovskite lm, thereby also limiting the further improvement of device performance. Therefore, considering the cost and complexity of device fabrication, developing facile and feasible strategies for synchronous passivation of the perovskite lm surface and their grain boundary defects and precise tuning of the energy level structure is an effective way to solve the above problems. At present, the passivation of those defects can be rationalized into two main strategies: (1) incorporation of functional additives in precursor solutions  6  or antisolvents  7  to control perovskite growth and/or passivate defects at perovskite GBs; (2) post-treatment of the perovskite layer. Passivators containing functional groups with large electronegativity such as -NH 2 , -NH 3 + , -C]O, Cl, F, -OH or CF 3 groups are widely used to passivate defects in perovskite lms, which can affect the interfacial carrier extraction kinetics, and also play an important role in protecting perovskite.  [8] [9] [10]  Some studies have shown that the introduction of highly electronegative uorine atoms into the perovskite lm has the effect of improving the hydrophobicity of perovskite lms, passivating halogen vacancies and xing A-site cations.  11, 12  The combination of the two strategies is known as the dual passivation strategy, which can achieve maximized passivation effects and further improve PCE and long-term stability. For example, Du et al. achieved a dual passivation strategy via adding N,N-dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydroiodide (DIAI) into a solution of the perovskite precursor and conducting post-treatment of perovskite lms, which enlarged grain size, improved crystalline quality, effectively passivated surface defects, reduced defect density, increased carrier lifetime, and improved device PCE and stability. Based on the dual passivation strategy, the champion device achieves an efficiency of 24.13%.  13  Gharibzadeh et al. introduced a long chain alkylammonium salt phenethylammonium chloride (PEACl) into a perovskite precursor and then post-treated the perovskite lm with PEACl to achieve a PCE of 22.7%.  14  However, the study of a dual passivation strategy based on F/ N co-doped graphene quantum dots (F/N-GQDs) has not been reported so far. Herein, we report a comprehensive dual passivation strategy enabled by coal-based F/N-GQDs. The dual passivation strategy effectively reduces the defects at grain boundaries and surfaces of the perovskite lms and successfully suppresses the nonradiative recombination, and the energy levels of the perovskite lms are also adjusted to make them have better matched energy levels with CE. Finally, the device based on the dual passivation strategy obtained a PCE of 16.37%, which was improved by 27.20% compared with 12.87% of the pristine.  atoms are bonded to one or two uorine atoms, meaning that F exists in the form of functional groups of F/N-GQDs, rather than in the form of physical adsorption or encapsulated elements. 
 Results and discussion 
 F/N-GQD characterization Fig.  1c  illustrates the ultraviolet-induced colour (l = 365 nm) variation of H 2 O solutions containing N-GQDs and F/N-GQDs. The uorescence transitions from light blue to light green upon uorine doping, signifying a substantial alteration in the optical characteristics of N-GQDs via functionalization with F. The blue shi of the PL peak may be attributed to the substitution of hydroxyl and carbonyl groups by uorine atoms.  18  In Raman spectroscopy (Fig.  1d ), the D-band of N-GQDs appears at 1346 cm -1 and the G-band appears at 1693 cm -1 . Interestingly, the G-band of F/N-GQDs shis to a longer wavenumber of 1699 cm -1 aer doping F by a hydrothermal process. Combined with PL analysis, this shi can be attributed to the removal of oxygen-containing functional groups and simultaneous doping of F atoms.  19  In addition, the position of the D-band remains almost constant, but the intensity increase, and F/N-GQDs shows the highest I D /I G ratio, illustrating the formation of more defects by doping F and the degree of disorder increase. 
 The perovskite lm characterization The detailed schematic process for the passivation of perovskite lms is shown in Fig.  S4 . † Comparing the HR-XPS patterns of C 1s of the perovskite lms (Fig.  1e ), it can be seen that the perovskite lm passivated with F/N-GQDs exhibits three new peaks and has higher peak intensity at 286.3 eV, indicating the successful introduction of F/N-GQDs into the perovskite lms. In addition, the generation of hydrophobic functional groups such as C-F, C-CF 2 , and C-CF can also prevent the degradation of perovskite caused by water intrusion, which is conducive to improving the stability of the device. Meanwhile, two peaks corresponding to Pb 4f 5/2 and Pb 4f 7/2 at 143.13 and 138.23 eV (Fig.  1f ), respectively, shi towards lower binding energy, indicating that the electron-rich groups of F/N-GQDs have a strong interaction with Pb 2+ . Notably, the Pb 0 peaks of the in situ and post lms decrease successively. Further isolation and enlargement of the 'Dual' section can show that the Pb 0 peak disappears (Fig.  S3 † ). The Pb 0 defect is characterized as a kind of deep-level defect, which exacerbates nonradiative recombination and initiates photo-decomposition, so suppressing Pb 0 defects is of great benet for improving photoelectric performance and stability of illumination. It can be seen from the I 3d HR-XPS spectra that both peaks of the passivated perovskite lms move towards low binding energy (Fig.  1g ), indicating that the coordination between electron-rich groups in F/N-GQDs and undercoordinated Pb 2+ leads to the weakening of Pb-I bonds, and the chemical environment around I 3d also changes.  20  As shown in Fig.  S5 , † the I/ Pb ratios of the pristine, in situ, post, and dual lms are 3.91, 3.63, 3.70, and 3.51, respectively, indicating that the accumulation of iodine ions in perovskite lms decreased aer passivation treatment, which can be attributed to the suppressed migration of iodine ions in the treated perovskite lm.  21  Ion migration of iodine is generally believed to be dominated by grain boundaries in polycrystalline lms, making it more difficult for ions to migrate in lms with large particle sizes.  22  Therefore, the smaller I/Pb ratios in the in situ and dual lms should be due to the increase in grain size, which can be further conrmed by scanning electron microscope (SEM) images. The top-view SEM images showed that the surface morphology of all lms is similar and there are no obvious pinholes (Fig.  2a ). Fig.  2b  shows the corresponding grain size statistical distribution and tted with a Gaussian function. Aer the corresponding passivation treatment, the grain size of the post lm did not change signicantly, indicating that posttreatment passivation did not affect the particle size of the perovskite lm. The grain size of in situ and dual lms enlarged slightly, indicating that both in situ and dual passivation could promote grain growth. Previous research demonstrated that the C]O and -OH functional groups can slow down the nucleation rate and promote crystal growth. Therefore, the grain size increase of the in situ lm may be attributed to the introduction of the two functional groups (-OH and C]O) to form an intermediate phase, thus delaying the nucleation of the perovskite and promoting grain growth.  7  The grain size increase of the dual lm is attributed to the in situ passivation treatment of the rst step. The larger the perovskite grain size, the smaller the number of grain boundaries, which is conducive to improving carrier transport. Therefore, it is essentially important to enlarge the perovskite grain size by purposefully tuning the crystallization of perovskite lms. We further analyzed the changes of cross-section morphology, and the corresponding cross-section SEM images are shown in Fig.  S6 . † The pristine lm consisted of many stacked grains with different sizes, and there were many transverse grain boundaries inside the lm, which would act as carrier nonradiative recombination centers and deteriorate device performance. For the dual lm, most of the crystals penetrated through the entire perovskite layer, which will facilitate the transport and separation of photogenerated carriers. It can be seen that the thickness of the perovskite layers remained unchanged (about 425 nm), and the interfacial contact between the in situ lm and dual lm with SnO 2 is signicantly improved. The reduction of nonradiative recombination centers and the introduction of hydrophobic functional groups will improve the hydrophobicity of the perovskite lms, thereby suppressing water inltration, mitigating the perovskite degradation, which is benecial to improve the stability of devices. The contact angle test results also conrm that the enhanced hydrophobicity of the in situ, post and dual lms (Fig.  S7 † ) and the hydrophobicity of the dual lm are the best, which is attributed to the superposition of in situ passivation and post-treatment passivation effects. The improvement of interface performance can be further conrmed through atomic force microscope (AFM) images (Fig.  2c  and S8a †). Aer passivation treatment, the Ra and RMS values decrease sequentially. It can be seen from Fig.  S8b  † that the change of the curve is consistent with the reduced roughness of the perovskite lm. The slight reduction in surface roughness may be because F/N-GQDs are more easily located at the grain boundary to reduce the height difference between the grain surface and boundary.  14  Therefore, the dual passivation strategy here allows for the fabrication of a smoother perovskite lm, which facilitates the contact between the perovskite layer and CEs and thus facilitates carrier extraction. From the XRD patterns shown in Fig.  3a , it can be observed that all perovskite lms exhibit the same diffraction peak positions and no additional diffraction peaks are observed, indicating that the F/N-GQD passivation treatment does not change the perovskite crystal structure.  23  However, the diffraction peak intensity and full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) of the perovskite lms obviously increase and narrow (see Fig.  3b ) aer F/N-GQD passivation, indicating that F/N-GQDs can induce the growth of perovskite crystals and signicantly improve crystallinity. In particular, the dual lm exhibits peaks with the highest intensity and the narrowest FWHM, indicating the largest grain size and the highest crystallinity of the dual lm. It can be seen from the Williamson-Hall plots in Fig.  3c  that aer passivation, the slope of tting lines of in situ, post, and dual lms decreases successively, indicating that the three kinds of passivation strategies effectively relieve lattice strain on the perovskite lm surface, thereby minimizing defect/trap centers and reducing non-radiative recombination at the perovskite lm surface.  24  From the UV-vis absorption spectra in Fig.  S9a , † it can be observed that the absorption intensity of the dual passivated perovskite lm is higher than that of the pristine lm, which can be attributed to better crystallization and higher lm quality, which is consistent with the above results of AFM, SEM, and XRD. It should be noted that there is no signicant difference in the absorption band edges, suggesting a negligible impact of F/N-GQDs on the bulk crystal structure of perovskite and did not change the band gap (Fig.  S9b † ). Moreover, the estimated Urbach energy (E u ) of pristine, in situ, post, and dual lms decreased successively, indicating that the passivation treatment can reduce the structural defects and defect density and improve the crystal structural stability (Fig.  3d ).  25  Moreover, space charge limited current (SCLC) measurements were performed on hole-only and electron-only devices, and the hole/electron trap density (N trap ) (Fig.  S10 † ) and carrier mobility (m) (Fig.  S11 † ) of the pristine and F/N-GQD passivated perovskite lms were quantitatively analyzed, and the calculated results are shown in Fig.  3e . It can be seen that the hole N trap of the perovskite lm is sequentially reduced, and a similar trend is also observed in electron N trap , indicating less nonradiative recombination and efficient charge transport. Compared to the pristine lm, all three kinds of passivation strategies can obtain greater m compared with the pristine lm. The trap density and their distributions of the lms were investigated with drive-level capacitance proling (DLCP), to further verify the reduction in the trap density of the passivated perovskite lms. As shown in Fig.  3f , the trap distribution results showed that the bulk defects are greatly reduced in in situ lms, which is mainly attributed to passivate the defects at the grain boundary. In post lms, the top surface defects are obviously reduced. These results further indicate the passivation of different passivation strategies. Thermal admittance spectroscopy (TAS) is a well-established technique to characterize both shallow-and deep-level defect densities by tracing the junction capacitance. The shallower trap region (0.35-0.40 eV) is assigned to defects at grain boundaries, and the deeper trap region (0.40-0.50 eV) is associated with defects at the lm surface.  26  The perovskite lm obtained by the in situ passivation strategy has a larger particle size, resulting in a better morphology and fewer grain boundaries, thereby reducing the occurrence of shallow energy level defects at grain boundaries (Fig.  3g ). The reduction of deep-level defects in the perovskite lm obtained by the post-processing strategy is mainly due to the electron-rich groups in F/N-GQDs that can react with the undercoordinated Pb 2+ in the perovskite lm, which is consistent with the results of XPS analysis. The perovskite lms obtained by the dual passivation strategy have few defects in both the deep-level defect region and the shallow-level defect region, indicating that the dual passivation strategy can effectively reduce both deep-and shallow-level defects, which is consistent with the results of DLCP. It is commonly considered that quasi-Fermi level splitting of the perovskite layer dominates the output voltage of devices. However, the surface defects usually lead to fast recombination of charge carriers, making it impossible to achieve effective Fermi level splitting.  27  The post-treatment strategy can more effectively passivate the surface defects of the perovskite lm, thereby suppressing nonradiative recombination and obtaining larger V oc than the in situ devices. As shown in Fig.  3h , the PL intensity of pristine, in situ, post, and dual lms is enhanced sequentially when the perovskite lm is directly deposited on a clean glass substrate, indicating that the three kinds of passivation strategies effectively passivate the deep-level defects and suppress the nonradiative recombination, which was consistent with the results of XPS and CSLC analyses. The carrier lifetime is further studied by TRPL. The tted TRPL curve and the corresponding carrier lifetime are shown in Fig.  3i  and S12, † respectively, and the detailed tting parameter is summarized in Table  S1 . † All three kinds of lms obtain larger s 1 and s 2 than the pristine lm, indicating that these three passivation strategies can effectively reduce the defect density and suppress nonradiative recombination, which has been demonstrated by previous SCLC, TAS and PL. These results also indicate that the dual passivation strategy has the best defect passivation capability, and the posttreatment passivation strategy is superior to the in situ passivation strategy. In contrast to the perovskite lms without carbon layers, the perovskite layers coated with carbon layers exhibit an opposite trend in PL and TRPL results as shown in Fig.  4a  and b , the corresponding carrier lifetime is shown in Fig.  S13 , † and the detailed tting parameter is summarized in Table  S2 . † The analysis results indicate that the charge transport kinetics between the perovskite layer and the carbon layer have been improved, and the hole transfer/extraction is more efficient, which can be mainly attributed to the reduction of the surface roughness of the perovskite lm and the better energy level matching. As shown in Fig.  4c , according to the TRPL results, the carrier diffusion length (L D ) of the pristine lm was estimated to be 123.45 nm. In contrast, the L D of in situ, post and dual lms increases to 221.60 nm, 252.43 nm and 516.62 nm, respectively, suggesting that all three kinds of passivation treatments can enhance the transport and extraction of carriers, which could assist the charge separation and collection. The extended diffusion length veries the efficient charge separation process and the low nonradiative recombination loss in the dual device, which contributes to a large quasi-Fermi level splitting and high V oc and FF.  28  Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) measurements are used to further characterize the energy level changes of perovskite lms aer passivation, and the corresponding UPS spectra and energy level schematics are shown in Fig.  S14 †  and 4d . The Fermi energy levels (E F ) of the three kinds of perovskite lms are up-shied by 60 meV, 110 meV, and 150 meV in the in situ, post and dual lms relative to that of the pristine, respectively, indicating that the surface energy levels of the three kinds of perovskite lms are all n-type doped aer passivation treatment.  29  At the same time, EF up-shi can increase the built-in potential (V bi ) of the device, which will increase the driving force for separation of photo-generated carriers and V oc .  30  This is also the most important reason for the increase of the V oc of the device. The CBM and VBM are up-shied in the in situ, post and dual lms relative to that of the pristine lm. The up-shi of the CBM can prevent the electron reverse injection recombination at perovskite/CE interfaces, resulting in improvement of V oc ,  31  and the up-shi of the CBM improves charge collection and reduces the carrier complexation process. F/N-GQDs mainly exist at the grain boundary and the surface of perovskite grains, so the energy level changes at the surface of F/N-GQD treated perovskite grains.  32  As shown in Fig.  S15 , † the energy level offset (Dm) between the VBM of the pristine lm and the WF (-5.0 eV) of the CE is 0.45 eV, and aer passivation, the Dm values of the in situ, post and dual lms are reduced to 0.41 eV, 37 eV and 0.36 eV, respectively, which will have a positive effect on device performance and favor hole extraction and transport, thus effectively reducing the hole accumulation at the interface.  33  Because of the difference in the WF, the Schottky barrier is formed at the perovskite layer/CE interface and the values of upward band bending DF pristine , DF in situ , DF post and DF dual can be calculated to be 0.74 eV, 0.80 eV, 0.85 eV and 0.89 eV, respectively. Higher DF not only blocks the reverse transfer of electrons from the perovskite layer to the CE, but also accelerates hole extraction at the interface of the perovskite layer/CE.  34  Therefore, the passivation of F/N-GQDs on the perovskite layer is veried to readily address the interfacial energy level mismatch issue, which is conducive to hole extraction and charge transport at perovskite layer/CE. The passivation illustration diagram is shown in Fig.  4e . 
 Device characterization The photoelectric performance of 25 independent devices of the pristine and the C-PSCs with a structure of FTO/SnO 2 /MAPbI 3 / CE passivated by different strategies was measured to conrm the repeatability of the devices. The box plots of four photoelectric parameters (J sc , V oc , FF, and PCE) are shown in Fig.  5ad  and the corresponding parameters are summarized in Table  S3 . † From Fig.  5c , it can be seen that the average PCE of the dual device is much higher than that of the pristine, the in situ and the post-passivation devices, all of which show excellent reproducibility. In the J-V curves of the four kinds of the champion devices shown in Fig.  5e , the pristine device exhibits a PCE of 12.87% with a J sc of 22.88 mA cm -2 , a V oc of 0.935 V, and a FF of 60.17%. Compared with the pristine device, the champion PCE of the in situ and the post devices improved to 14.04% and 14.77%, respectively. The dual passivation-treated device achieved a much higher PCE of 16.37% with a V oc of 0.983 V, a J sc of 23.88 mA cm -2 , and an FF of 69.88%. And at the maximum power point (MPP), the steady-state output curves of the four kinds of the champion devices were tested and are shown in Fig.  5f , which are highly consistent with the J-V measurements. The ideality factor (A) and R s extracted from the J-V curves, and the results show that the passivated device has a smaller A and R s compared to the pristine device, indicating that trap-assisted charge recombination is effectively suppressed (Fig.  5g ). The light J-V curves of different devices normalized with J sc values and their corresponding slopes extracted at each voltage are shown in Fig.  S16  † and 5h, respectively. Aer passivation treatment, the slopes near the short circuit decrease sequentially, indicating a weakening of eld dependence in the photocurrent collection (Fig.  S16 † ). Under open circuit conditions, the larger slope of the dual device also suggests an enhanced charge collection and extraction at the perovskite layer/CE interface (Fig.  5h ), which contributes to the improvement of FF and V oc and can be attributed to the improved quality of the perovskite lm and better interface contact with the CE. In addition, the exciton dissociation probability (P) in the devices was investigated by combining J-V curves under dark conditions to further quantify the charge collection efficiency. As can be seen in Fig.  S17 , † the passivated devices have a higher intrinsic V oc , consistent with the J-V results in Fig.  5e . As is shown in Fig.  S18 , † in the higher V eff region, J ph gradually reaches saturation current density (J sat ), indicating that almost all of the excitons can be dissociated into free carriers, and no charge recombination occurs before being collected by the electrode. Generally, the J sat is related to the maximum exciton generation rate (G max ), which is mainly determined by the light absorption. The dual device reaches J sat earlier than other devices, indicating that the dual passivation treatment also improves the light absorption performance of the devices. P values obtained from the normalized photocurrent density (J ph / J sat ) for the pristine, the in situ, the post and the dual devices are 86.02%, 90.50%, 93.4% and 95.39%, demonstrating that a more effective exciton dissociation and charge collection process occurs in the dual device (Fig.  5i ). We then veried the performance improvement from the aspect of carrier transfer and recombination dynamics by different passivation strategies with devices. Fig.  S19  † shows the Mott-Schottky plots of those four kinds of devices, and the V bi of devices can be estimated based on the intercept of the linear tting line on the X-axis. It can be seen that the V bi of the device aer passivation is signicantly increased, which can be attributed to the defect passivation and optimal energy level alignment enhancing carrier extraction, accumulation and transport capabilities, thereby preventing the recombination of charges and nally improving the FF, V oc and stability of the device.  35  As shown in Fig.  S20 , † as the bias voltage increases, the passivated device has a lower capacitance, which means less charge accumulation at interfaces, and is conducive to the reduction of hysteresis, and this is also conrmed by the forward and reverse J-V curves of the champion devices in the ESI † (Fig.  S21 ). The Nyquist plots were drawn by tting the test data of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and the inset gure shows the equivalent circuit model (Fig.  6a ). A lower R s value indicates a higher charge transfer rate, while a larger R rec value indicates a suppressed recombination rate. Clearly, the dual devices have a higher charge transfer rate and lower recombination rate, which indicates a decrease in the defect density of perovskite lms effectively inhibiting the charge recombination at the perovskite/CE interface and improving the extraction of holes. At the same time, the smaller R s value of the device is also favorable for FF improvement.  36  The capacitancefrequency plots (Fig.  S22 † ) and Bode plots (Fig.  S23 † ) were further extracted based on the EIS data. The passivated devices show lower capacitance at a frequency between 10 0 and 10 3 Hz and similar capacitance across higher frequency. A smaller lowfrequency capacitance under dark conditions may imply that more free carriers are collected by the CE, which reduces the interfacial charge accumulation.  37  It can be seen from the Bode plots that the carrier lifetime of the devices is successively prolonged, which indicates faster charge carrier extraction and transport aer passivation treatment.  38  Furthermore, we tested the open-circuit photovoltage decay (OCVD) curves. As compared, the dual device displays a slower V oc decay trend, suggesting suppressed carrier recombination (Fig.  S24 † ). As expected, the carrier recombination process of the dual device is suppressed, giving it a longer s n (see Fig.  S25 † ). The lowest carrier recombination rate and the longest carrier lifetime will enhance V oc output, so the dual device displays a larger V oc value. Moreover, we performed transient photo-voltage (TPV) measurements, and the photovoltage attenuation time of the passivated device is signicantly longer than that of the pristine device, which indicates that the carrier lifetime is extended due to the reduction of nonradiative recombination loss, and further proves the suppression of nonradiative recombination by optimizing the devices. Fig.  6c  plots the dark J-V curve at logarithmic coordinates. From the tting results, it can be seen that J 0 varies by an order of magnitude, while the J sc of devices has a small variation, so a decrease in J 0 contributes to an increase in V oc .  39  Through light-intensity-dependent V oc measurements (Fig.  6d ), it can be seen from the slope of the tting line that the passivated device has a smaller value of the ideal factor compared to the pristine device, which indicates that the trap-assisted Shockley-Read-Hall recombination was effectively suppressed due to the defect passivation at the GBs and surface of perovskite lms. 
 Stability of the devices We also evaluated the long-term stability (Fig.  6e ) and thermal stability (Fig.  6f ) of unencapsulated devices at room temperature and elevated temperature (relative humidity 10-20%). At room temperature, aer 30 days, the in situ, post, and dual devices maintained 89.7%, 90.5%, and 92.5% of the initial PCE, respectively, which were better than 85.2% of the pristine device. For this reason, we further measured the long-term stability of the four kinds of devices under continuous onesun illumination at the MPP to verify the reliability. As shown in Fig.  S26 , † the dual passivation strategy-based device retained 90.1% efficiency aer 100 h tracking, while the pristine, in situ and post devices retained 81.3%, 84.7 and 86.8% of their initial values, respectively, reecting the improved stability of the device by F/N-GQD optimization. In addition, the thermal stability of the device tested at 60 °C is also well improved. The unencapsulated pristine, in situ, post, and dual devices retained 68.6%, 77.9%, 79.9%, and 82.5% of the initial PCE aer 360 h, respectively, suggesting that all three kinds of passivation strategies could improve the long-term stability and thermal stability. The improvement of long-term stability mainly due to the enhanced hydrophobicity of the perovskite lm and reduced defect density and thermal stability can be attributed to the fact that the uorine atoms form strong hydrogen bonding with MA + to immobilize the cations. 
 Conclusions In summary, a C-PSC fabricated by a dual passivation strategy using F/N-GQDs achieves a maximum PCE of 16.37%. The dual passivation strategy not only effectively passivates the Pb 2+ and Pb 0 defects, suppresses the nonradiative recombination and reduces the accumulation of iodine ions in perovskite lms, but also optimizes the energy level alignment between the perovskite layer and CE, and improves the hole extraction ability of the CE. In addition, it also induces perovskite grain growth and improves interface contact. Under atmospheric conditions, the long-term stability and thermal stability of the dual devices are signicantly improved. This study proposes a simple, feasible, and effective strategy of improving the efficiency and stability of C-PSCs by simultaneously passivating the surface and grain boundary defects of perovskite lms. Fig. 1a schematically Fig. 1a schematically presents the process of preparing F/N-GQDs (more details are in the experimental section). From the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image and size distribution of F/N-GQDs shown in Fig. S1, † it can be observed that the F/N-GQDs exhibit an average size of approximately 3.53 nm and excellent dispersion without agglomeration. The doping of F element into N-GQDs was further demonstrated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), photoluminescence (PL) and Raman spectroscopy. The signicant F 1s peak in both the full XPS spectrum (Fig. S2 †) and the high-resolution XPS (HR-XPS) spectrum of F 1s (Fig. S3 †) conrms the presence of elemental uorine in F/N-GQDs. From the HR-XPS patterns of C 1s of F/N-GQDs (Fig. 1b), it can be seen that six major peaks are displayed at 284.70, 285.34, 286.44, 287.65, 288.69 and 289.45 eV, corresponding to C-C/C]C, C-N/C-CF, C-O, C-CF 2 , C]O, and C-F functional groups, respectively. 15-17 Notably, the presence of C-CF and C-CF 2 signies that the adjacent carbon 
 Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 Synthesis of F/N-GQDs and interaction with perovskites. (a) The preparation process of F/N-GQDs. (b) The corresponding HR-XPS spectra of C 1s. (c) PL spectra and (d) Raman spectra of N-GQDs and F/N-GQDs. The HR-XPS spectra of (e) C 1s, (f) Pb 4f and (g) I 3d of different perovskite films. 
 Fig. 2 2 Fig. 2 Morphology characterization of four kinds of perovskite films. (a) SEM images of different perovskite films and corresponding (b) size distribution histograms of crystalline grains. (c) 2D AFM images of different perovskite films. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 The effect of passivation on the crystal structure and defect density of perovskite films. (a) XRD patterns, (b) peak intensity and FWHM and (d) Urbach energy of different perovskite films. (c) Williamson-Hall plots of different perovskite films based on XRD. (e) N trap and m for different perovskite films from SCLC measurement. (f) DLCP and (g) TAS of different perovskite films; (h) PL and (i) TRPL spectra of four kinds of perovskite films on glass substrates. 
 Fig. 4 4 Fig. 4 Characterization of four kinds of perovskite films. (a) PL and (b) TRPL spectra of the four kinds of perovskite films covered by the CEs. (c) Diffusion length and (d) schematic energy-level diagram of perovskite films. (e) Schematic illustration of the perovskite films passivated by the dual passivation strategy based on F/N-GQDs. 
 Fig. 5 5 Fig. 5 Characterization of the four kinds of devices. (a) V oc , (b) J sc , (c) PCE and (d) FF box-and-whisker plots of the devices based on different perovskite films. (e) The J-V curves and (f) steady-state output curves of the current density and PCE of the best-performing devices. (g) Plots of -dV/dJ vs. (J sc -J) -1 and linear fitting. (h) The slope of the normalized J-V curves at each voltage and (i) normalized photocurrent (J ph /J sat ) with respect to V eff . 
 Fig. 6 6 Fig. 6 Photovoltaic performance. (a) Nyquist plots obtained from EIS measurements. (b) TPV. (c) Dark J-V curves of devices. (d) V oc as a function of light intensities. Unpackaged C-PSCs are tested at (e) room temperature for long-term stability and (f) for thermal stability at 60 °C. 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 J. Mater. Chem. A, 2024, 12, 5980-5989 | 5987
Paper #: 8972_2
Title: Dual passivation strategy based on F/N co-doped coal-based graphene quantum dots for high-efficiency carbon-based perovskite solar cells

Table of Contents 
 Preparation of coal-based F/N-GQDs Coal-based F/N-GQDs were synthesized by our previously reported method [16]   as shown in Figure  1 (a). In short, the coal was pretreated and then condensed and refluxed with H 2 O 2 solution. After the condensing reflux was completed, the excess H 2 O 2 solution was removed to obtain the F/N-GQDs aqueous solution. Then the solution was transferred to a 100 mL Teflon lined stainless steel autoclave, and 0.4 mol L -1 HF solution was added and kept at 120 ℃ for 10 h. After that, the autoclave was naturally cooled down to room temperature. The obtained suspension was dialysised via a 0.22 μm filter to remove large particles, and the purified solution is freeze-dried to obtain F/N-GQDs powder. 
 Device fabrication In detail, the FTO glass substrate was continuously ultrasonicated in succession with deionized water (DI), isopropanol (IPA), and ethanol for 20 min,, respectively. Then it was dried by hot-air flowing and treated with a UV/ozone for 15 min. Next, SnO 2 precursor was spin-coated on the cleaned FTO substrate at 3000 rpm for 30 s and thermally annealed on a hot plate at 200℃ for 60 min in ambient air. After that, the 159 mg MAI and 461 mg PbI 2 were dissolved in a mixed solvent of 0.7 mL anhydrous DMF and DMSO (9:1, V/V) to obtain perovskite precursor solution. After cooling to room temperature, the obained films were treated with UV/ozone for 15 min. The perovskite precursor was then deposited on the substrate at the speed of 4000 rpm for 30 s. Then 450 µL ethyl acetate (without/with F/N-GQDs) was dropped at the center of the spinning substrate for 17 s before the end of spin-coating. For the post-treatment passivation of perovskite films, F/N-GQDs IPA solution was spin-coated at 3000 rpm for 30 s, followed by annealing at 80°C for 10 min. Subsequently, the commercial carbon paste (Japan JUJO chemical Co., Ltd) was coated on the perovskite layer with a thickness controlled by two layers of polyimide tape (60 μm), and the total thickness is 120 μm, and dried at 60℃ for 10 min. The above operation was repeated twice to form CEs and complete the device preparation. All device fabrication processes were carried out under air condition with a temperature range of 20-25 ℃ and a relative humidity of 10-20%. Light intensity was calibrated by a standard silicon solar cell that NREL certified. The effective area of C-PSCs was 0.08 cm 2 , which was defined using a black metallic mask.              Based on the intercept between the linear part of the curves and the horizontal axis, the values of V oc can be estimated to be 0.923 V (Pristine device), 0.944 V (In-situ device), 0.957 V (Post device) and 0.976 V (Dual device), respectively, confirming that the passivated devices have a higher intrinsic V oc 1 . The C-V measurements under dark conditions was analyzed using Mott-Schottky equation: 1 C 2 = 2 qεε 0 N (V-V bi - K B T q ) where the built-in potential (V bi ) can be xtracted from the intercept of C -2 versus the applied voltage V, and the charge carrier density can be obtained from the slope, thereby revealing the accumulation/extraction of charge between the perovskite layer/CE.     Tables S3. Summary of the performance photovoltaic parameters of different devices. of perovskite films were calculated using the Mott-Gurney equation 6 : (2) μ = 8L 3 J D 9εε 0 V 2 Where J D is current density and V is bias voltage. 
 Note S4. Thermal admittance spectroscopy (TAS) analysis The trap density (N T ) can be estimated from the angular frequency dependent capacitance using the following equation: N T (E ω ) = - V bi qW dC dω ω k B T Where V bi denotes built-in potential, W is depletion width, C is capacitance, ω is frequency, k B is (7) Boltzmann constant, and T is temperature. V bi and W are obtained from the Mott-Schottky plots. The applied angular frequency ω defines the energetic demarcation, according to the following equation 7 : ( ) E ω = k B T ln ω 0 ω (8) Where ω 0 is attempt-to-escape frequency. 
 Note S5. Time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements and the calculation of carrier lifetimes The TRPL decay curves were fitted using the following biexponential decay function (ExpDec2) 8 : (3) f(t) = A + B 1 exp(-t/τ 1 ) + B 2 exp(-t/τ 2 ) where τ 1 and τ 2 represent the carrier lifetimes for fast and slow recombination processes, and B 1 , B 2 and A are fitting parameters, respectively. The average carrier lifetime (τ AVE ) can be calculated according to the following formula 8 : (4) τ AVE = ( ∑ B i τ i 2 )/( ∑ B i τ i ) Note S6. Calculation of carrier diffusion length (L D ) For PSCs, L D is another key factor in characterizing the carrier transport ability, which. We quantified hole diffusion lengths in the perovskite films. L D can be estimated according to the 1D diffusion equation 9 : (5) τ τ 0 = 1 + π 2 4 × ( L D L ) 2 where L D is the diffusion length, τ and τ 0 represent the carrier lifetime of the perovskite film without and with a carbon layer, respectively. 
 Note S7. Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) analysis The UPS analyse was performed by Thermo Fisher, Escalab 250Xi. He I (hν = 21.22 eV) emission source is employed.  CBM = VBM + 𝐸 𝑔 where the E g is the bandgap calculated by UV-vis measurements. Note S8. Analysis of the slopes of the normalized J-V curves at each voltage Ideally, under OC conditions, an almost vertical steep curve represents a rapid transition from MPP to OC, indicating efficient photocurrent collection. The increased charge collection at OC is also reflected as charge collection at SC that is less field dependent, since the highly steep slope near OC indicates desirable charge collection efficiency even at the low-field regime, showing a field independent charge collection property  11  . At SC, the charge collection relies on electron-hole pair separation (exciton dissociation) followed by transport drifting by the internal field. Their slopes at SC remains nearly unchanged, indicating similar drift transport for all films because of the presence of a large internal field. In contrast, at OC, the internal field is low and the charge collection relies more on carrier diffusion. Consequently, any potential insulator or trap states in the active layer or at the interfaces would appreciably deteriorate the charge collection efficiency  12  . At the same time, a high V oc value is also an indication of low nonradiative recombination at OC. Note S9. Photocurrent density (J ph ) versus effective voltage (V eff ) analysis J ph and V eff are defined as follows: J ph =J L -J D (13) V eff =V 0 -V (14 ) where J L and J D are the current densities under AM 1.5G 100 mW cm  -2  illumination and in the dark, respectively. V is applied voltage, and V 0 is voltage when J ph =0. In the lower V eff region, the J ph of the four devices increases sharply with the increase of V eff , while in the higher V eff region, J ph gradually reaches J sat , indicating that almost all of the excitons can be dissociated into free carriers, and no charge recombination occurs before being collected by the electrode. Generally, the saturation current density (J sat ) is related to the maximum exciton generation rate (G max ), the G max of the devices were assessed using the equation of G max =J sat /qL  13  , where the q and L denote the electronic charge (1.610 -19 C) and the thicknesses of the film (425 nm in this study), respectively. The values of G max for the Pristine, In-situ, Post, and Dual devices are 1.45 × 10 28 , 1.54 × 10 28 , 1.78 × 10 28, and 2.24 × 10 28 m -3 s -1 , respectively. Note S10. Calculations of R s , A and J 0 from J-V curves A planar structured PSC can be treated as a single junction diode with a large shunt resistance, and its J-V curve can be described as 14 : (15) J = J sc -J 0 {exp[ e(V + JR s ) AK B T ]-1} where J is the current flow through the external load, J sc is photo-induced current density, J 0 is dark saturate current density, V is applied voltage, A is ideality factor, K B is Boltzmann constant, T is temperature, and e is electron charge. Equation (11) can also be transformed into the following equation 14 : (16) -dV dJ = AK B T e (J sc -J) -1 + R s A and R s can be obtained from the slope of the -dV/dJ vs (J sc -J) -1 curves and the intersection of the curves with the ordinate. Based on to equation (  16 ), V oc can be expressed as in the following equation 14 : (17)  V 1 、 5 1. 2 5 1. 3 6 2 10 Fig. S4 . 11 Fig. S7 . 15253610S411S7 Fig. S1. HR-TEM image of F/N-GQDs; Inset: the histogram of lateral size distribution. ....................................................................................................9 Fig. S2. (a) XPS survey spectrum of N-GQDs and F/N-GQDs. (b) The corresponding high resolution XPS spectra of F 1s. ......................................9 Fig. S3. (a) The corresponding high-resolution XPS spectra of Pb 4f from Dual film. .....................................................................................................10 Fig. S4. Schematic diagram of perovskite film fabrication via In-situ passivation strategy, Post-treatment passivation strategy and Dual passivation strategy. .....................................................................................10 Fig. S5. XPS spectra of the (a) Pristine (b) In-situ (c) Post and (d) Dual films. (e) I/Pb ratio from XPS data.........................................................................11 Figures S6. Cross-section SEM images of different perovskite films. .......11 Fig. S7. Water contact angles of different perovskite films. .......................11Fig. S8. (a) 3D AFM images of different perovskite films; (b) The height curves vary with distance are recorded from the solid line of the corresponding 2D AFM image.....................................................................12 
 Fig. S9 . 13 Fig. S12 . 14 Fig. S13 . 14 Fig. S14 . 15 Fig. S15 . 15 Fig. S16 . S913S1214S1314S1415S1515S16 Fig. S9. (a) UV-Vis absorption spectra and (b) Tauc plots of different perovskite films. ...........................................................................................13 Fig. S10. Dark J-V curves from (a) hole-only and (b) electron-only devices based on different perovskite films. .............................................................13 
 Fig. S19 . S19 Fig. S19. Mott-Schottky plots of devices based on different perovskite layers. ......................................................................................................................17 
 Fig. S20 . S20 Fig. S20. C-V curves of devices based on different perovskite layers.........18 Fig. S21. J-V curves scanned both forward and reverse directions of devices based on different perovskite films. .............................................................18 Fig. S22. C-F curves of devices measured at a reverse potential of 0.8 V ..19 Fig. S23. Bode curves of devices measured at a reverse potential of 0.8 V 19 Fig. S24. OCVD of devices based on different perovskite films.................20 Fig. S25. Electron lifetime curves of devices based on different perovskite films..............................................................................................................20 Fig. S26. The long-term stability of unpackaged C-PSCs under continuous MPP tracking................................................................................................21 3 Supporting Tables ...........................................................................................22 Tables S1. TRPL fitting parameters of perovskite films deposited on glass substrate........................................................................................................22 Tables S2. TRPL fitting parameters of perovskite films covered by the CEs. ......................................................................................................................22 
 1. 4 4 photoluminescence (TRPL) were all performed by FLS980 (Edinburgh Instruments 
 Fig. S1. HR-TEM image of F/N-GQDs; Inset: the histogram of lateral size distribution. 
 Fig. S2 . S2 Fig. S2. (a) XPS survey spectrum of N-GQDs and F/N-GQDs. (b) The corresponding high resolution XPS spectra of F 1s. 
 Fig. S5 . S5 Fig. S5. XPS spectra of the (a) Pristine (b) In-situ (c) Post and (d) Dual films. (e) I/Pb ratio from XPS data. 
 Fig. S7 . S7 Fig. S7. Water contact angles of different perovskite films. 
 Fig. S8 . S8 Fig. S8. (a) 3D AFM images of different perovskite films; (b) The height curves vary with distance are recorded from the solid line of the corresponding 2D AFM image. 
 Fig. S9 . S9 Fig. S9. (a) UV-Vis absorption spectra and (b) Tauc plots of different perovskite films. 
 Fig. S10 . S10 Fig. S10. Dark J-V curves from (a) hole-only and (b) electron-only devices based on different perovskite films. 
 Fig. S11 . S11 Fig. S11. J 1/2 -V curves from (a) hole-only and (b) electron-only devices based on different perovskite films. 
 Fig. S12 . S12 Fig. S12. Carrier lifetime of four kinds of perovskite films on glass substrates. 
 Fig. S13 . S13 Fig. S13. Carrier lifetime of four kinds of perovskite films covered by the CEs. 
 Fig. S14 . S14 Fig. S14. UPS spectra of different perovskite films. The passivation treatment of F/N-GQDs may also influence work function of perovskite films and the interface energy level alignment in the devices, where the energy level alignment is another key factor in determining the charge transport behaviors. 
 Fig. S15 . S15 Fig. S15. Schematic illustration of the Perovskite/Carbon interface. 
 Fig. S16 . S16 Fig. S16. The J-V curves are normalized by J sc values. The high field and the low field represents the short circuit (SC) and the open circuit (OC) condition, respectively, to compare the field dependent behavior from SC to MPP. At SC, the steep slope suggests that the charge collection is strongly field dependent. 
 Fig. S17 . S17 Fig. S17. The curve of dark J-V. 
 Fig. S18 . S18 Fig. S18. Plots of J ph with respect to the V eff . 
 Fig. S20 . S20 Fig. S20. C-V curves of devices based on different perovskite layers 
 Fig. S22 .Fig. S23 . S22S23 Fig. S22. C-F curves of devices measured at a reverse potential of 0.8 V 
 Fig. S25 . S25 Fig. S25. Electron lifetime curves of devices based on different perovskite films. 
 Fig. S26 . S26 Fig. S26. The long-term stability of unpackaged C-PSCs under continuous MPP tracking. 
 Figure S14 (left panel) shows the secondary electron cutoff spectra of all the perovskite films, from which the work function (WF) can be obtained using the equation 10 : WF = hv -E cutoff where hυ is the photoelectron energy of He I light, and E cutoff is the secondary electron cutoff. The valence band maximum (VBM) and conduction band minimum (CBM) of the perovskite films sample can be calculated by the (10) VBM = 21.22 eV-(E cutoff -E onset ) 
 1 ) 1 photostationary state, and when the light was instantaneously switched off, the photocarriers underwent rapid recombination, the recombination process can be clearly reflected through the OCVD measurements. And the corresponding electron lifetime (τ n ) of the devices also can be extracted based on the following formula15 :     
 
 
			 References for Supporting Information........................................................28
