Paper #: 3917_1
Title: Investigation of bandgap grading on performances of perovskite solar cell using SCAPS-1D and impedance spectroscopy
The optimization the bandgap of a solar cell is an important consideration to achieve better high efficiency. The ideal bandgap for a solar cell would be one that matches the energy of photons in the solar spectrum, allowing for the efficient absorption of light and conversion into electricity.In the current study; the performance of the perovskite-based solar cells was investigated numerically in band gap from 1.55 to 1.67 (eV) using the onedimensional SCAPS simulation software not only for the current-voltage characteristics but also for the complex impedance (Z*). The effects of band gap energy of the perovskite absorber layer were evaluated from the J-V curves have shown a maximum efficiency is achieved at 1.61 (eV).From the analysis of the complex impedance (Z*) data only one maximum was observed in the Nyquist and Bode plots. In this case; further analysis war carried to explorethe complex modulus (M*) spectra. Therefore this analysis revealed the existence of tow clears maxima in the Nyquist and Bode plots. The de-convolution approach allowed us to identify the origin of each relaxation. In addition the electrical parameters such as the relaxation time (τ 1 ), and the (τ 2 ) related to the electron recombination and ionic transport were extracted. Moreover, a good correlation was obtained between all parameters from the I-V and complex modulus (M*) data to explain the maximum efficiency achieved at 1.61 (eV).These studies basically the combinationof the complex impedance (Z*) and modulus (M*) provide an appropriate path for the optimization of the solar cell efficiency.
Introduction Perovskite has gained popularity as a light-harvesting material for photovoltaic applications. Perovskite has a distinct set of optoelectrical properties, including adjustable band gaps, a high absorption coefficient, long carrier diffusion lengths, and high charge carrier mobility's. One of the major advantages of perovskite solar cells(PSC) is their efficiency. They have shown a significant progresswith record efficiencies reaching over 25%. They are also relatively cheap and easy to manufacture, which could make them an attractive alternative to traditional silicon-based solar cells  [1] [2] [3] .However; these perovskite exhibit mixed electronic-ionic conductivity which still ambiguous in regard of device mechanism. Generally, a perovskite solar cell (PSC) comprises a hole transporting layer (HTM), an electron transporting layer (ETM), and a perovskite absorber layer. Several studies indicate that TiO 2 , ZnO, and SnO 2 are commonly used as the electron-transporting material (ETM), while NiOx and CuO 2 are utilized as hole-transporting materials (HTM). Additionally, fluoride tin oxide (FTO) and indium tin oxide (ITO) are frequently employed as electrodes.The band gap energy (Eg) of a solar cell refers to the energy difference between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band in the semiconductor material used to make the cell. The bandgap energy is an important parameter in the design and optimization of a solar cell, as it determines the maximum photon energy that can be absorbed by the cell and converted into electrical energy  [4] .Largeband gap energy corresponds to a smaller maximum photon energy that can be absorbed, while smallerband gap energy corresponds to a larger maximum photon energy that can be absorbed. Therefore, the band gap energy of a solar cell should be chosen such that it matches the peak of the solar spectrum, which occurs in the range of 1.1 to 1.6 electron volts (eV). Common materials used for solar cells have bandgap energies in the range of 1 to 2 eV, with silicon being the most widely used material with a bandgap energy of 1.1 eV  [5] [6] [7] [8] . The bandgap energy of a solar cell determines the efficiency of the cell in absorbing light and converting it into electrical energy. The bandgap energy should be carefully chosen to match the peak of the solar spectrum in order to maximize the efficiency of the cell  [4, 6] . Impedance spectroscopy is a technique used to analyze the electrical properties of materials and devices, including perovskite solar cells. In addition to its applications in perovskite solar cells, impedance spectroscopy is also used to study a wide range of other materials and devices, including batteries, fuel cells, and electrochemical systems. This technique involves applying a small AC voltage signal to the cell and measuring the resulting current response  [9] [10] [11] . The impedance of the cell can then be determined from the frequency dependence of the current response, which provides information about the resistive and capacitive properties of the material as well as the interface properties between the layers involved in the device solar cells. In perovskite solar cells, impedance spectroscopy can be used to study the charge transport properties and recombination dynamics of the material. This information is important for optimizing the performance of perovskite solar cells, as it provides insights into the limitations that are affecting the cell's efficiency  [12, 4] . For example, impedance spectroscopy can be used to determine the recombination resistance, which is a measure of the rate at which electrons and holes are recombining in the material, and to identify the presence of defects or impurities that may be affecting the charge transport properties. Our recent study  [10]  was carried out to investigate the electrical response of this solar cell to optimize of the thickness of the same perovskite using the combination of the current -voltage and complex impedance simulated data. The integration of the complex impedance (Z*) and modulus (M*) functions was very useful to discern the respective contributions of ionic diffusion and recombination processes, through our de-convolution procedure. Both approach allowed us consistently to identify a maximum efficiency (18%)that can be reached at an optimal thickness of 700 nm for the perovskite solar cell under investigation. Therefore; the aim current study is to investigate the effect of the band gap (E g ) of the perovskite solar cell with the same thicknesses (700 nm) based on the analysisof theI-V characteristic and the combination of the complex impedance (Z*) and modulus (M*) functions. 
 Simulation parameters In this work, we have used SCAPS-1D, which is an acronym for ''solar Cell Capacitance Simulator"  [13] . It is used to model the behavior of solar cells under different conditions. It is particularly useful in designing and optimizing solar cell structures. This software provides a range of simulation capabilities, including the ability to calculate the capacitance, current-voltage characteristics, and efficiency of solar cells. Various electrical simulations can be performed as well as displayed using the software SCAPS-1D.For DC simulations,the current-voltage characteristics (I-V) lead to obtain directly to short-circuit density (J sc ); open -circuit voltage (V oc ); fill factor (FF%) and conversion efficiency (η%). In addition for AC simulations; the complex impedance (Z*) data could also be generated over frequency range. Moreover, these simulations can be carried out at different conditions such as bias voltage, illumination and temperature. The perovskite solar cell structure under investigation is shown in Fig.  1 . The structure consists of three crucial layers: the absorber layer (CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 ), with aband gap valueis ranging from 1.55 to 1.67 (eV). The hol transport materials (NiOx), and the electron transport materials (ZnO).The electrical and optical parameters of different layers used to simulate perovskite solar cell are listed in table 1; whereas the physical properties of the defect levels are summarized in table 2. All simulations were carried out at a temperature 300 K and under standard illumination. 
 Results and discussion 
 Current-Voltage characteristics Fig.  2  shows the evolutions of the current-voltage (I-V) atdifferentvalues of band gaps of the active layer (perovskite). The shape of the I-V curve of a solar cell is determined by several factors, including the material properties of the cell, the cell's design, the intensity and spectrum of the incident light, and the temperature of the cell. It provides information about the short circuit current density (Jsc), open circuit voltage (Voc), fill factor (FF), and power conversion efficiency (PCE). The evolutions of (V oc ), (J sc ), (FF) and (η%) at different band gap value of the perovskite are presented in Fig.  3 . It can be seen that the changes in perovskite band gap have a notable impact on all these parameters; pacifically, the decreases observed in short-circuit density (Jsc) with increasing band gap value. In contrast, the open circuit (Voc) and the fill factor (FF) exhibited a significant increase as the band gap value increase. The (J sc ) is related to the absorption of light in the solar cell and is higher with lower band gaps, as the perovskite materials can absorb a larger portion of the solar spectrum. The (V oc ) is related to the energy level alignment of the solar cell, and is higher with larger band gaps, as the perovskite materials can generate a larger thermal voltage. The (FF) is related to the recombination and resistive losses in the solar cell, several authors are shown a high fill factor indicates that the solar   cell is more efficient at converting sunlight into electricity. The fill factor of a solar cell or module is a measure of its ability to convert sunlight into electricity efficiently. It is calculated as the ratio of the maximum power output of the solar cell to the product of the open circuit voltage and short circuit current. Mathematically, it is expressed as: FF = P max V oc × J SC (1) Where: P max is the maximum power output, V oc is the open circuit voltage, and J sc is the short circuit current. The relationship between V oc and fill factor(FF) is important in understanding the performance of a solar cell or module. Generally, an increase in V oc tends to result in an increase in the fill factor(FF). This is because a higher open circuit voltage typically indicates better semiconductor material quality and reduced recombination losses, which can lead to improved overall performance and higher fill factor(FF). V oc can lead to higher efficiency, all else being equal.The relationship among efficiency (η%), fill factor (FF), and open-circuit voltage (V oc ) can be expressed by the equation: η% = FF × V oc × J SC P in (2) Where: η% is the efficiency of the solar cell, V oc is the open-circuit voltage, J sc is the short-circuit current, FF is the fill factor, andP in is the incident solar power. Efficiency is a key parameter that characterizes the performance of the cell. In practice, the efficiency of a solar cell is related to losses in the absorption, carrier generation, transport, and collection processes. From this equation, it's clear that V oc and FF are crucial factors contributing to the efficiency of a solar cell. Improving either V oc or FF can enhance the overall efficiency of the solar cell. In our solar cell, the increase of the open circuit (V oc ) as well as the fill factor (FF) leads to a significant increase of the efficiency (η%) as the band gap (E g ) increase reaching a maximum value(19.24%) at band gap of 1.61 (eV) then started to decreases slightly. 
 Compleximpedance (Z*) and modulus (M*) analysis To further investigate the effect of perovskite band gap on Voc, Jsc, FF%, and η% obtained from I-V characteristics, the complex impedance (Z*) as well as the modulus (M*)were generated to explore the combined impact of ion migration and the recombination-transport dynamics of charge carriers in the perovskite solar cell device. Fig.  4 (a) shows the Nyquist plot of complex impedance where the evolution of the imaginary part (Z'') versus the real part (Z') at different band gap value of perovskite. It can be observed that for each value (E g ) the impedance spectra display only a single semi-circle. Moreover, the diameter of this semi-circle increase as the value (E g ) increases. In Fig.  4 (b), the evolution of the imaginary part (Z'') versus frequency also reveals only the presence of maximum corresponding to a specific frequency (F max ). In addition; this maximum shifts towards lowers frequencies, and its magnitude increases as the band gap value (E g ) of the perovskite layer increases. Fig.  4 (c) shows the evolution of the real part (Z') versus frequency at different band gap value of perovskite, indicating two successive change in slope above 10 2 Hz. Fig.  4 (d) was selected to illustrate this behavior. The evolution of the real part (Z') versus frequency for 1;5 (eV) value of perovskite. This successive change in the slope for the real part (Z') could suggest the existence of a second maximum with a small magnitude, which can be hidden in the evolution of the imaginary part (Z'') versus frequency. In addition; this behavior correlates with that from Nyquist plots (Fig.  4(a) , where only one semicircle was observed suggesting the existence of two semicircles which are merging. Based on the above considerations; we tried to investigate the complex modulus (M*)  [10] . Fig.  5a  show the variation of the imaginary part (M'') versus the real part (M') at different the band gap from 1.55 to 1.67 (eV) from Nyquist plot. In this case two semi-circles are observed in the modulus with a small diameter at high frequency and the second with high diameter at low frequencyrevealing the existence of two relaxation processes.In contrast; only one semi-circle was observed from Nyquist plot (Fig.  4a )) for complex impedance (Z*). Fig.  5b  shows the frequency dependence curves of the imaginary part (M'') of electrical modulus.It is clearly seen that similar behavior was observed for all curves. However it can be state that all curves exhibit two maxima peaks in the evolution of the imaginary part (M'') at each band gap value: One of the peaks is located at low frequency and the other is located at a high-frequency region.This finding again reveals the existence of two relaxation processes instead of one relaxation peak; which was observed from bode plot (Fig.  4b )) for the complex impedance (Z*). In addition when the band gap energy increase; the peak located at low frequency moves to low frequency regions; whereas the peak located at high frequency moves to higher frequency regions. Such shift could indicate the opposite behavior between both relaxation processes and originates from free charge accumulation at the interface (perovskite/ZnO) with the increase of the band gap and the ionic charge transfer effect was dominated at high band gap energy. The peak height observe in the evolution of M'' versus frequency curves is proportional to the associate capacitance: M'' max =C 0 /2C, C 0 is the empty capacitance of the sample. In order to illustrate the importance of the combination analysis using the complex modulus in this study; a superposition of the evolutions of Z''(F) and M'' (F) versus frequency for a typical band gap 1.55 (eV) is shown in Figure  (5c ). It can be seen that from these plots, the Z'' versus frequency curve showed a single peak whereas the M'' versus frequency curve showed two very well clears peaks: The first is located at a low-frequency region while the second is located at a highfrequency region. More importantly; it can be seen that the peaks of Z'' and M'' versus frequency located at low-frequency occurs at the same frequency suggesting that are representing the same relaxation mechanism. 
 Modeling via equivalent circuit The above analysis showed that the evolution M'' versus frequencyreveled the existence of two very well clears peaks a low and high frequency region. In addition the observed peaks of Z'' and versus frequency M'' located at low-frequencyoccurs at the same frequency suggestingthat are representing the same relaxation mechanism. This finding could confirm the existence of a second in the evolution Z'' versus frequency at high frequency region; which is hidden the magnitude of the first peak. Therefore; the equivalent electrical circuit shown in Fig.  6  was used to model the impedance (Z*) as well modulus (M*) spectra of perovskite solar cells. This equivalent circuit is composedof resistors (R) as well as more complex elements such as the constant phase element (CPE) including two blocks (R 1 //CPE 1 ); (R 2 //CPE 2 ) and R s in series; which was used to model perovskite solar cells bySrivastava and al  [12] . The main objective of the equivalent circuit is to accurately reproduce the shape of the impedance and modulus spectrum, including any peaks, or other features that may be present. Once the equivalent circuit has been successfully fit to the impedance and modulus spectrum, it can be used to extract additional information such as the times constantsfor each relaxation process. To assess the validity of the equivalent circuit, a typical graph of the complex modulus (M*) in the Nyquist plot, as well as Bode plots at 1.55 eV, was selected, as shown in Fig.  7(a-b ). It can be seen that the best fit was obtained for both processes at low and high frequencies using the above equivalent electrical circuit. Moreover, our de-convolution procedure of both processes was carried out in order to check and to confirm the validity of this circuit. This separation procedure was very useful leading to shows clearly the existence of these two processes as well as their locations to identify their specific frequency corresponding to the two maxima observed from M'' (F). From theoretical point of view; it seems to us investigate the complex impedance (Z*) and modulus (M*) the electrical equivalent circuit used for the fit and de-convolution procedure. The complex impedance of the constant phase element, (CPE-T, p) is given as. Z CPE = 1 T(jω) p ( 3 ) Where T is the pseudo-capacitance; ωis the angular frequency; j 2 =-1 is the imaginary number, and α is the CPE exponent. For p = 1, CPE is a pure capacitor (T = C); for p = 0, CPE is a pure resistance (T = 1/R); and for p =-1, CPE is an inductor (T = 1/L);. The total complex impedance of the above circuit can be written as follows. Z * (ω) = R s + R 1 1 + (jωτ 1 ) P1 + R 2 1 + (jωτ 2 ) P2 (4) Where: τ 1 = (R 1 T 1 ) 1/p1 and τ 2 = (R 2 T 2 ) 1/p2 From the fit with the above equivalent circuit, the value of Rs was found to be equal to 0. This value is consistent with those used in the simulation because the value of the series resistance was not taken into consideration in this study. Additionally, the values of both P 1 and P 2 were found to be equal to 1. In this case, the pseudo-capacitance becomes a pure capacitor (T = C). Therefore, the total complex impedance of the above circuit is reduced as follows. Z * (ω) = R 1 1 + (jωτ 1 ) + R 2 1 + (jωτ 2 ) (5) Where τ 1 = R 1 C 1 and τ 2 = R 2 C 2 The complex modulus (M*) is related to the complex impedance (Z*) by the following relationship: Z * (ω) = jω × M * (ω) (6) The real and imaginary parts of the electrical modulus can be rewritten, as shown below:   M ′ (ω) = C 0 C 1 [ (ωτ 1 ) 2 1 + (ωτ 1 ) 2 ] + C 0 C 2 [ (ωτ 2 ) 2 1 + (ωτ 2 ) 2 ] ( 7 ) M ″ (ω) = C 0 C 1 [ ωτ 1 1 + (ωτ 1 ) 2 ] + C 0 C 1 [ ωτ 1 1 + (ωτ 1 ) 2 ] (8) By solving the equation (dM''(ω)/dω=0); it is also found that the angular frequency corresponding to the maximum observed in the evolution of the imaginary part M'' versus the angular frequency are: ω 1max = 2πf 1max = 1 τ 1 = 1 R 1 C 1 ω 2max = 2πf 2max = 1 τ 2 = 1 R 2 C 2 From the fit with the equivalent circuit; the values of R 1 and R 2 as well as C 1 and C 2 were obtained. Then the two time constants (τ 1 ) and (τ 2 ) were calculated using the above relateships. Fig.  8  shows the evolution of the time constants of the high and low frequency relaxation processes, τ 1 and τ 2 , as well as the efficiency η (%) in the band gap (E g ) range. It can be observed that the characteristic time constants τ 1 and τ 2 represent a slow and a fast process, respectively. It is well known that perovskite solar cells exhibit mixed electronic-ionic conductivity  [12] . In this case, it is expected that three processes could occur, which are related to the ionic, recombination, and diffusion of charge carriers for electrons and holes. Therefore, in the current study where the frequency range is limited to 10 MHz, the characteristic time constants (τ 1 ) and (τ 2 ) represent the relaxation time of ionic charge transfer and recombination processes, respectively. Further work is in progress to explore a very large frequency range to investigate the diffusion process of electrons and holes. Therefore; at this stage, the blocks (R 1 //C 1 ) and (R 2 //C 2 ) can be attributed to the contributions of recombination and ionic transport, respectively. R 2 and R 1 represent the resistance of the ionic charge transfer and recombination processes, respectively, while C 2 and C 1 denote the capacitance of the ionic charge transfer and recombination processes, respectively. The recombination time refers to the time it takes for charge carriers (electrons and holes) to recombine after being generated by light in the solar cell. In an ideal solar cell, the generated charge carriers should be collected before recombining. From Fig.  8a , it can be observed that the time constant (τ 1 ) attributed to the recombination process decreases rapidly up to 1.61 (eV), leading to a significant increase in efficiency (η%). This behavior can be explained by the fact that a shorter recombination time is generally desirable because it means that charge carriers are less likely to recombine before being collected, resulting in higher solar energy conversion efficiency. Above 1.61 eV, the efficiency (η%) starts to decrease slowly, indicating that some carriers may recombine before being collected, which reduces the efficiency of the solar cell. This finding correlates with other research demonstrating that a short time, facilitated by narrower band gap materials, correlates with reduced recombination rates and enhanced charge carrier lifetimes. As highlighted by Li et al.  [17] , tuning the band gap of perovskite materials emerges as a promising strategy to mitigate recombination losses by selecting materials with larger band gaps, which inherently possess higher carrier densities and longer diffusion lengths. Similarly from the (Fig.  8b ), it can be seen that the relaxation time (τ 2 ) of ionic processes increase in the range of band gap (Eg) indicating a slow ionic transport dynamics up to 1.61 (eV) where the efficiency η(%) reached a maximum. This behavior correlate with the less recombination rate as it is revealed from (Fig.  8a ). However; even though the relaxation time (τ 2 ) of ionic processes continue to increase above 1.61 (eV); the efficiency η(%) showed à slowly decrease. This is consistent with previous investigations, prolonged τ 2 , stemming from reduced trap densities and surface defects, is associated with enhanced charge carrier lifetimes and diminished recombination rates. The work carried out by Gao et al.  [18]  and Saliba et al.  [19]  that the defect passivation techniques and the incorporation of additives result in augmenting charge transport properties and overall device performance. 
 Conclusion This study aimed to optimize the band gap for perovskite solar cells (PSC) using simulations with SCAPS-1D. The four main parameters short-circuit current density, open-circuit voltage, fill factor, and power conversion efficiency were extracted and analyzed from I-V characteristics at different bandgaps. Additionally, complex impedance data were generated using simulations with SCAPS-1D. This approach involves the combination of complex impedance and modulus functions, enabling the discernment of the respective contributions of ionic diffusion and recombination processes through our deconvolution procedure. The results obtained indicate that both ionic diffusion and recombination processes can affect the overall performance of the solar cell. Both approaches employed revealed that a band gap energy of 1.61 eV is optimal for achieving maximum efficiency (19.24%) for these perovskite solar cells. Even though no decrease above 1.61 (eV) was observed in the evolutions of the relaxation times (τ 1 ) and (τ 2 ) related to the recombination and ionic transport processes, we assume that this efficiency decrease above 1.61 (eV) could appear in the third relaxation time (τ 3 ) related to the diffusion process of the electrons and holes. It is worth noting that in the frequency range [10 -2 -10 7 Hz] used in this study, only two relaxation peaks were observed, which could be attributed to the respective contributions of ionic diffusion and recombination processes. Further work is in progress to explore a very large frequency range [10 -1 -10 10 Hz], enabled by using simulations with SCAPS, in order to highlight the contribution from the diffusion process. Additionally, the series resistance is also expected to be taken into consideration. Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. Schematic structure of solar cell with perovskite. 
 Fig. 2 .Fig. 3 . 23 Fig. 2. J-V characteristics of perovskite solar cell device with variation of band gap value of absorbent layers. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. Impedance spectra;(a) Nyquist plot and (b-c-d) bode plotsof solar cell perovskite. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. Modulus spectra (a) Nyquistplot,(b) bode plots of solar cell perovskite at different band gap (E g ) and (c) is a superposition of the evolutions of Z'' and M'' at 1.55 (eV).. 
 Fig. 6 . 6 Fig. 6. Electrical equivalent circuit to fit the impedance and modulus spectrum. 
 Fig. 7 .Fig. 8 . 78 Fig. 7. Fit and de-convolution modulus spectra (a) Nyquist plot and (b) bode plots of solar cell perovskite. Solid line correspond to the Fitand de-convolution process with the equivalent circuit. 
 Table 1 1 Electrical and optical properties of different layers used in SCAPS-1D [14, 15] . Properties NiOx MAPbI 3 ZnO Thickness (nm) 80 700 80 Band gap (eV) 3.75 1.55-1.67 3.2 Affinity (eV) 2.1 3.90 4.10 Dielectric perm DOSCB(cm ¡3 ) DOSVB(cm ¡3 ) μe(cm 2 /Vs) μh(cm 2 /Vs) Acceptor densities NA (cm ¡3 ) Donor densities ND (cm ¡3 ) 10.7 2.8E19 1.8E19 12 25 1E15 0 10 2.76E18 3.9E18 15 15 1E11 0 8.1 4.5E18 1E18 300 1 0 1E19 
 Table 2 2 Defects propertiesof different layer [16] . Defect properties NiOx MAPbI 3 ZnO Defect type Acceptor neutral donor Total defect density (cm-3) 1E17 1.5E16 1E17 Electron Diffusion length, L n (nm) 180 510 280 Hole Diffusion length, L p (nm) 800 510 51
