Paper #: 12550_1
Title: Surface Potential Homogenization Improves Perovskite Solar Cell Performance
The synthesis of multicomponent metal halide perovskites (MHPs) by cationic and/or halide alloying allows band gap tuning, optimizing performance and improving stability. However, these multicomponent materials often suffer from compositional, structural, and property inhomogeneities, leading to uneven carrier transport and significant non-radiative recombination losses in lead halide perovskites. While many researchers have focused on the aggregation of perovskite halide ions, the impact of the surface potential has received relatively less attention. In this study, the multifunctional ionic liquid 1-allyl-3-methylimidazole dicyanamide (AMI) is introduced into the perovskite precursor to effectively regulate the surface potential of the perovskite layer. This approach inhibits non-radiative recombination, enhances carrier injection, and improves device performance. Surface potential homogenization within the perovskite layer leads to simultaneous improvements in both the efficiency and stability of perovskite solar cells. For wide-bandgap perovskites (1.81 eV), the optimal power conversion efficiency (PCE) reaches 20.44%, with an open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 1.339 V, a short-circuit current density (J sc ) of 17.92 mA cm -2 , and a high fill factor (FF) of 85%. This strategy also proved effective for conventional bandgap perovskite solar cells (PSCs) (1.53 eV), leading to a significant increase in performance, with the PCE increasing from 23.22% to 25.41%.
Introduction With power conversion efficiencies (PCE) rapidly exceeding 26%, metal halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have become a hot spot in photovoltaic performance research.  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5]  Currently, the most efficient PSCs use the multicomponent metal halide perovskites (MHPs) to improve the photoelectric performance and stability of the absorption layer and to achieve bandgap tuning.  [6] [7] [8]  MHPs offer remarkable tunability in their optoelectronic properties due to the variability in ion radius, charge number, coordination ability, and diffusion rates of the constituent ions. By optimizing the ionic composition, it is possible to modulate the DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202404755 bandgap, enhance carrier transport efficiency, and improve light absorption.  [9, 10]  However, this compositional versatility also presents challenges during film formation, where MHPs undergo complex processes of composition evolution and crystallization.  [11] [12] [13] [14]  Changes in the physicochemical properties and crystallization kinetics of the devices can induce bandgap gradients and localized energy states, leading to non-uniformities in the surface potential of the perovskite film. These surface potential variations enhance non-radiative recombination, reduce the efficiency of photogenerated carrier separation and transport, and ultimately degrade both the PCE and the long-term operational stability of the device.  [15, 16]  Numerous studies have demonstrated that modulation of the surface potential of perovskite can effectively alter the surface and interfacial barriers or potential wells, thereby minimizing nonradiative recombination losses at the interface and enhancing carrier extraction and injection efficiency.  [17, 18]  Fang et al. exploited the spatial geometric symmetry of interfacial molecules to achieve a more uniform surface potential distribution, which significantly enhanced hole carrier extraction between functional layers and improved both the performance and stability of PSCs.  [19]  Jiang et al. employed a reactive surface engineering approach to effectively reduce surface potential fluctuations in cladding thin films caused by surface steps and terraces, resulting in an increase in the efficiency of p-i-n PSCs to more than 25%.  [20]  Additionally, Chen et al. achieved a record-breaking open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 2.19 V by modulating the surface states of the perovskite film using surface dipoles to create a uniform surface potential distribution, further improving the efficiency of these devices.  [21]  These studies use surface treatment technologies to reform the surface potential of perovskite materials, thereby improving device performance. However, improper surface treatment can lead to deviations in the work function, exacerbate ion migration, and create process compatibility challenges.  [22]  In this study, ionic liquids with excellent solubility, high conductivity, and thermal stability were incorporated into the perovskite precursor to enhance interactions between MHPs components, enable effective defect management and surface potential homogenization.  [23] [24] [25]  The multifunctional ionic liquid 1-allyl-3-methylimidazolium dicyanamide (AMI) interacts with organic cations and chelates uncoordinated Pb 2+ ions. This interaction leads to the formation of higher-quality perovskite films with a reduced density of defect states. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR), and X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) confirm these effects. Furthermore, Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) techniques, including height imaging, Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy (KPFM), and Conductive Atomic Force Microscopy (C-AFM), revealed a more homogeneous surface morphology and potential distribution in the perovskite films after the introduction of AMI. This modification led to reduced non-radiative recombination losses and enhanced carrier extraction and transport efficiency in the AMI-modified perovskite films. Finally, a wide-band gap PSCs based on mixed cations and mixed halogen achieved an optimal PCE of 20.44%, produced a high V oc of 1.339 V, and a filling factor (FF) of more than 85% without loss of short-circuit current density (J sc ), and showed improved stability. Furthermore, conventional bandgap PSCs based on mixed cations also demonstrated improved photovoltaic performance following the introduction of AMI, with the PCE increasing from 23.22% to 25.41%. This work highlights the importance of surface potential homogenization in perovskite films for optimizing overall device performance. This understanding is essential for advancing perovskite solar cells towards theoretical efficiency limits. 
 Results and Discussion In order to elucidate the effect of the AMI treatment on the perovskite and its subsequent impact on the performance of PSCs, a straightforward p-i-n device configuration was employed, as shown in Figure  1a . Firstly, the electrostatic potential surface (EPS) of the AMI additive was elucidated by performing density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Subsequently, we analyzed the interaction between the AMI and the perovskite components (Cs 0.2 FA 0.8 PbI 1.7 Br 1.3 ), as illustrated in Figure  1b . The dinitrile amine ion is able to form a hydrogen bond with the -NH 2 group in FA + through the nitrogen atoms of its cyanide group. Moreover, they are capable of interacting with Pb 2+ ions through the formation of coordination bonds.  [26]  In the positive ion, the nitrogen atom in the imidazole ring exhibits greater electronegativity than the carbon atom, allowing it to form a coordination bond with the lead ion through its lone pair electrons.  [27]  This synergistic effect can effectively stabilize the lead ions and regulate the electronic structure of the MHPs system. To further validate the existence of interactions, FT-IR tests were initially conducted. Figure  1c  illustrates a notable difference in the characteristic absorption peaks, which have undergone a downward shift in the vibrational frequency of the bond stretching. This is in contrast to the PbX 2 :AMI mixtures, suggesting that both the imidazole ring and the dinitrile amine anion formed a ligand bond with Pb 2+ and the electron density decreased. Regarding the cations, the electron density of the characteristic functional group was affected by hydrogen bonding, resulting in a change in the frequency of the stretching vibration (Figure  1d ). The formation of hydrogen bonds was subsequently corroborated in Figure  1e . Furthermore, the introduction of AMI resulted in a shift and splitting of the proton resonance peak of FA + , which was attributed to its cationic proton spin coupling.  [28]  XPS (Figure  1f-h ) demonstrates that the main peaks of Pb 4f, I 3d, and Br 3d all shift to higher binding energies, with Pb exhibiting consistency with the changes observed in FT-IR. This suggests that AMI may facilitate the binding of perovskite components.  [29]  Subsequently, the morphology and properties of perovskite were analyzed to elucidate the beneficial effects of the interaction between perovskite films and AMI. Due to the effective intermolecular interactions between perovskite and AMI, the nucleation and crystallization process of perovskite is regulated and delayed, resulting in the formation of higher-quality polycrystalline films.  [30]  As illustrated in Figure  S1  (Supporting Information) and Figure  2a  (Figure  S2 , Supporting Information shows the corresponding particle size distribution analysis), perovskite films treated with AMI exhibit larger grain size, reduced num-ber of pores, and reduced density of grain boundaries. This is supported by AFM height images (Figure  2b ; Figure  S3 , Supporting Information). The AMI treatment produced a more uniform and dense surface morphology, significantly reduced surface defects and particle inhomogeneity, and enhanced the overall quality and consistency of the perovskite film. As demonstrated in the AFM phase images in Figure  S4 , (Supporting Information), the initial perovskite film exhibited clear phase separation. Upon the addition of AMI, the phase distribution of the film became progressively more uniform.  [31]  Furthermore, X-ray diffraction patterns (Figure  S5 , Supporting Information) demonstrated that the perovskite structure was complete and that crystallinity was enhanced upon the introduction of AMI. High-quality homogeneous perovskite films contribute to the improved efficiency and stability of PSCs.  [32]  As illustrated in Figure  2c  and C-AFM measurements demonstrate that the modified perovskite films exhibit enhanced charge uniformity. The coefficient of variation (CV) (Note S1, Supporting Information) in Figure  S6 , (Supporting Information) is reduced, indicating a more uniform distribution of surface currents in the perovskite film. This improvement suggests the absence of prominent local defects or surface inhomogeneities, effectively mitigating issues related to carrier accumulation and localized charge injection. This uniformity is critical for optimizing the overall performance and stability of the PSCs. Given the significant improvements in the morphology and properties of the perovskite films, the slightly reduced surface conductivity has a negligible impact on the device efficiency.  [33, 34]  KPFM can identify the local work function on the nanoscale with high resolution, revealing the potential distribution across the material's surface. The ripple-like features in Figure  2d  indicate localized fluctuations in the surface potential of the perovskite film, likely arising from non-uniform ionic distribution and crystallization processes.  [35] [36] [37]  Furthermore, the surface potential difference between the two samples can be quantitatively compared using the following Equation (  1 ): where CPD is the contact potential difference between the AFM tip and the sample, q is the elementary charge, and Φ is the work function. The CPD of the AMI-treated perovskite films is lower than that of the control group (Figure  S7 , Supporting Information), suggesting a reduction in the work function and n-type doping at the top surface, thereby facilitating electron migration.  [38]  Simultaneously, the reduction in the CV signifies a more uniform distribution of surface potential across the perovskite film. A uniform surface potential distribution has been demonstrated to effectively promote carrier extraction and inhibit recombination at the interface, a finding that was subsequently corroborated by the results of subsequent carrier dynamic characterization. To gain further insight into the changes in energy levels in the film before and after treatment, ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) tests were conducted. As shown in Figure  S8 , (Supporting Information), the work function is reduced by 0.11 eV after treatment. This result is consistent with that of KPFM analysis.  [39]  The analysis of the performance of the perovskite films reveals trends that are consistent with those observed in the characterization of the surface morphology. As illustrated in Figure  S9 , (Supporting Information), the introduction of AMI has been shown to enhance the visible light absorption and reduce the Urbach energy (Eu) (Note S2, Supporting Information) of perovskite films. A lower Eu value indicates a reduced defect density within the perovskite film.  [40, 41]  This reduction in defect density is further supported by the steady-state photoluminescence (PL) spectra (Figure  3a ). The PL peak intensity of perovskite film is significantly increased, suggesting a reduction in defect states that impede interfacial charge carrier transport, thereby increasing charge carrier extraction efficiency.  [42]  Furthermore, the confocal microscopy images in Figure  S10 , (Supporting Information) demonstrate that the perovskite films exhibit enhanced fluorescence intensity and more homogeneous luminescence, providing additional support for these observations.  [43]  The photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) and quasi-Fermi level splitting (QFLS) results presented in Figure  3b  provide further evidence that the incorporation of AMI plays a role in effectively inhibiting non-radiative recombination and promoting carrier separation.  [44]  The QFLS can be calculated from the PLQY and the external quantum efficiency (EQE PV ) according to the following Equation (  2 ): CPD = ∅ tip -∅ sample -q (1) QFLS = QFLS rad + k B T ⋅ ln(PLQY) = k B T ⋅ ln ( PLQY J G J 0,rad ) (2) where k B is the Boltzmann constant, and T is the temperature (300 K). J G (the generation current density) can be approximated as the short-circuit current density of the device J sc . Additionally, J 0.rad represents the recombination saturation current density of dark radiative, which can be calculated by EQE PV (Note S3, Supporting Information). The increase in QFLS from 1.11 to 1.18 eV indicates that the introduction of AMI effectively reduces the non-radiative recombination path of the perovskite layer and improves the utilization rate of the photogenerated carriers.  [1]  This finding is further supported by the dependence of V oc on light intensity, as illustrated in Figure  S11 , (Supporting Information). The TRPL test results (Figure  3c ) showed an increased carrier lifetime and further indicated that the perovskite carrier dynamics were improved. Subsequently, an electroluminescence quantum efficiency (EQE EL ) test was conducted, and the resulting data are presented in Figure  3d . The higher EQE EL value in the simulated open circuit, which indicates that the non-radiative recombination loss is effectively suppressed. The V oc non-radiative recombination loss (∆V oc, non-rad ) is quantified using the following Equation (3): ΔV oc, non-rad = k B T q ln ( EQE EL ) (3) the introduction of AMI reduces the ∆V oc,non-rad from 0.194 to 0.123 V (Figure  S12 , Supporting Information), thereby increasing the V oc .  [45]  Furthermore, as illustrated in Figure  3e , the device exhibits a remarkably low leakage current, which reduces charge recombination loss and guarantees high V oc and FF. The results of Electrical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) are shown in Figure  3f  and Table  S1 , (Supporting Information), lower series resistance (R co ) and higher recombination resistance (R rec ) indicate that the incorporation of AMI significantly enhances charge carrier transport and inhibits charge recombination.  [46]  In order to gain further insight into the reasons for the improved device performance, an evaluation of the defect state density and trap state density within the device is conducted. The space-charge limited current (SCLC) method was employed to investigate the impact of AMI on the density of defect states in perovskite films. As illustrated in Figure  S13  and Table  S2  (Supporting Information), the electron defect density was found to be 9.37 × 10 -15 and 4.14 × 10 -15 cm -3 for the control and treated devices, respectively. The hole defect density of the control and treated devices was found to be 1.76 × 10 -16 and 6.52 × 10 -15 cm -3 , respectively. A reduction in defect state density means a decrease in the number of defect sites and a reduction in interfacial charge recombination.  [47]  Furthermore, the capacitance-frequency (C-𝜔) test was employed for the assessment of the trapped state density within the device. The trapped state density distribution (N T (E 𝜔 )) is defined by Equation (  4 ): N T ( E 𝜔 ) = 𝛽 qAd V bi k B T 𝜔dC d𝜔 (4) And the trap energy E 𝜔 and frequency 𝜔 meet Equation (  5 ): E 𝜔 = k B Tln ( 𝜔 0 𝜔 ) (5) where 𝛽 is the correction factor, where its value is set to 1, A and d represent the effective area of the device and the thickness of the perovskite layer (330 nm), respectively. 𝜔 0 is a constant, representing the rate prefactor of trap thermal excitation, 𝜔 is the frequency and C is the capacitance value. V bi can be obtained by extracting the intersection of linear region of Mott-Schottky curve (Figure  S14a , Supporting Information) with X-axis according to Mott-Schottky Equation shown in Note S4, (Supporting Information).  [48]  As shown in Figure  3g  and Figure  S14b , (Supporting Information), after the introduction of the AMI, the trap states of the devices are uniformly distributed, mainly in deep and shallow energy levels.  [49]  As shown in Table  S3 , (Supporting Information), the trap state density decreases from ≈1.07 × 10 17 to ≈7.66 × 10 16 cm -3 eV -1 , and the trap center energy level is shallower, indicating that there is a small trap-assisted recombination loss in the device at this time, so that the device has a high J sc .  [50] [51] [52]  Finally, to further investigate recombination within the device, transient photovoltage (TPV) and transient photocurrent (TPC) are measured. As shown in Figure  3h ,i, longer carrier lifetimes mean lower recombination losses, and shorter carrier extraction times mean that carriers can be collected more efficiently by the electrode. Once again, it provides strong evidence for the improvement of FF.  [53, 54]  Wide-bandgap PSCs with p-i-n structure were fabricated, with varying concentrations of AMI in the perovskite precursor solution. The resulting photovoltaic parameters are summarized in Table  S4 , (Supporting Information). As the AMI content increased, the device's V oc gradually improved, while J sc initially increased and then decreased. A similar trend was observed in the PCE, which first rose and then declined with increasing AMI concentration. Based on the previous analysis, AMI effectively reduces non-radiative recombination by adjusting the surface potential of the perovskite films, thereby increasing the PCE of the device. However, excessive concentration of AMI may lead to over-passivation or poor crystallinity, which can negatively impact device performance. The results indicate that the PSCs exhibit optimal performance when the AMI concentration in the precursor solution is 0.1 vol%. Figure  4a  shows the J-V curves (reverse scan) of the PSCs with AMI doping at this optimal concentration. At this point, the modified device achieves a peak PCE of 20.44%, with a V oc of 1.339 V, a J sc of 17.92 mA cm -2 , and an FF of 85.17%. In comparison, the control device exhibits a V oc of 1.284 V, a J sc of 17.24 mA cm -2 , and an FF of 83.23%, and a PCE of 18.42%, demonstrating that the AMI-doped device has superior photovoltaic performance. Additionally, when the electron transport layer is switched to C 60 , incorporating AMI in the perovskite precursor solution also enhances device performance, though the efficiency remains lower than that of devices with PCBM (Figure  S15 , Supporting Information). This difference is likely due to the more favorable energy level alignment and superior electron transport properties of PCBM.  [55]  The External Quantum Efficiency (EQE) results are shown in Figure  4b , where the improved device exhibits a stronger spectral response across the entire visible light spectrum. The photovoltaic parameters, including PCE, V oc , J sc , and FF, are further analyzed and presented in Figure  S16 , (Supporting Information). Similarly, the steady-state output of the modified device improves significantly in both the PCE and J sc (Figure  S17 , Supporting Information). This improvement is consistent with the J-V results. The stability of unencapsulated control devices and modified devices was further evaluated. Firstly, after 1300 hours of storage in a nitrogen (N 2 ) glove box, the efficiency of the control device decreased to 78% of its original value, while the modified device retained 85% of its initial PCE (Figure  4c ). Secondly, thermal stability was assessed by placing the unencapsulated devices in a thermal chamber at 85 °C in a N 2 atmosphere. As shown in Figure  4d , the PCE of the modified device decreased to 55% of its original value, while the control device decreased to 35%. Furthermore, contact angle analysis (Figure  S18 , Supporting Information) revealed an increase in the hydrophobicity of the perovskite film surface following the introduction of AMI. The enhanced stability of PSCs is attributed to the improved crystalline quality of the perovskite.  [56, 57]  The same optimization strategy was employed to enhance the performance of conventional bandgap PSCs. As illustrated in Figure  4e ,f, the PCE increases from 23.22% to 25.41%, with an achieved V oc of 1.149 V and J sc of 25.93 mA cm -2 . Additionally, the FF exhibited an improvement from 83.37% to 85.29%. The detailed photovoltaic parameters of the devices are summarized in Table  S5 , (Supporting Information), further demonstrating the broad applicability of this optimization approach. 
 Conclusion In conclusion, the introduction of the multifunctional ionic liquid 1-allyl-3-methylimidazolium dicyanamide (AMI), with its electron-withdrawing properties, effectively passivates surface defect states in MHPs films and significantly suppresses nonradiative recombination. Additionally, it induces n-type doping on the surface, modulating the energy band structure and optimizing carrier transport. Ultimately, by homogenizing the surface potential distribution of the perovskite layer, lower nonradiative recombination losses and enhanced carrier extraction and transport management are achieved, leading to comprehensive improvements in the V oc , J sc ., and FF of PSCs. Furthermore, this optimization strategy is demonstrated to be universally applicable in conventional bandgap PSCs. These findings highlight the importance of surface potential homogenization in enhancing the overall performance of PSCs and provide a new pathway for further improving device efficiency and stability. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. a) Schematic structure of PSCs and the electrostatic potential surfaces of AMI (C: cyan, N: blue, H: white). b) Interaction mechanism diagram of AMI and perovskite components. c) FT-IR spectra of pure AMI, pure PbX 2 , and the mixture of PbX 2 and AMI (X: I, Br) (PbX 2 :AMI). d) FT-IR spectra of pure AMI, pure FAI, and the mixture of FAI and AMI. e) 1H NMR of pure AMI, pure FAI, and the mixture of FAI and AMI (DMSO-d6). f-h) Pb 4f, I 3d and Br 3d XPS spectra of perovskite films. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. a) Top SEM images; b) AFM height image; c) C-AFM current mapping images; d) KPFM of the surface of perovskite films. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. a) PL, b) PLQY and QFLS, and c) TRPL of the perovskite films. d) EQE EL , e) J-V curves in the dark, f) Nyquist plots of EIS spectra, g) Trap DOS of the PSCs, h) TPV, and i) TPC of the PSCs. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) Reverse J-V curves, b) EQE spectra, c) Stability of PSCs stored in a nitrogen-filled glove box (unencapsulated) at room temperature, d) Thermal stability of unencapsulated PSCs kept in a nitrogen-filled glove box at 85 °C in the dark of wide-bandgap PSCs. e) Reverse J-V curves and f) EQE spectra of conventional bandgap PSCs. 
			 Adv. Energy Mater. 2024, 2404755 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 Adv. Energy Mater. 2024, 2404755 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2404755 (3 of 8) 16146840, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202404755 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 16146840, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202404755 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
