Paper #: 13791_1
Title: Export Citation
Transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) have attracted momentous scientific attention because of their intriguing properties, such as high optical transparency, high charge mobility, self-passivating surfaces, adjustable bandgap values, and work function and chemical stability. These TMDC materials have been incorporated into third-generation perovskite solar cell (PSC) devices to boost their solar harvesting and conversion performance. Herein, we provide an overview of the dominant PSC configurations and various modifications that have been carried out on TMDCs that are geared toward the enhancement of the performance of the PSC devices. The integration of TMDCs and their effects on various parts of the PSC devices have been pointed out. Furthermore, the utilization of computational tools in the deep understanding of the TMDC materials and PSC devices has been elucidated. Finally, the challenges and prospects of integrating TMDC materials in the PSC devices have been discussed.
I. INTRODUCTION The global energy crisis has negatively impacted the economic growth of many nations since sufficient, sustainable, and clean energies are required to propel industrialization, thus causing an economic spur.  1  Currently, non-renewable sources of energy, for instance, fossil fuels, are utilized to generate energy in most countries.  2  However, these non-renewable energy sources face several challenges, such as depletion of energy reserves and pollution of the environment due to the excessive use of fossil fuels, which leads to the emission of greenhouse gases and poses health risks to humans and animals.  3  Inspired by the need to alleviate the problems associated with using non-renewable energy sources, researchers have devoted much effort to searching for other clean and sustainable alternatives. Accordingly, solar energy has been identified as a clean and inexhaustible source of energy that can be harvested by the photovoltaic effect.  4  In photovoltaic technologies, radiant energy can be converted to electricity using suitable semiconductor material systems, such as solar cells.  5, 6  Over the years, silicon-based solar cells have dominated the market because they are long-lasting, offer high power conversion efficiency (PCE), and are easy to produce on a large scale.  7  Despite these attractive attributes, silicon solar cells are expensive, heavy, and rigid; therefore, other relatively cheaper, lightweight, and flexible solar cells have been fabricated.  8  These new frontiers of solar cells include dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs),  9  organic solar cells (OSCs),  10  and perovskite solar cells (PSCs),  11, 12  which all belong to third generation. Third-generation solar cells are solution-processable and cheaper, and they have the potential to achieve high performance above the Shockley-Queisser theoretical limit of PCE of about 33%.  13  Among these third-generation solar cells, PSCs have gained tantamount scientific attention because of their relatively high performance of PCE above 26%, which is close to the PCE of commercial silicon-based solar cells, as depicted in the National Renewable Energy Efficiency (NREL) best efficiencies chart (Fig.  1 ). The performance of PSCs has been rising since its initial development a decade ago because of technological advancement and modifications carried out on them, such as the introduction of dopants,  14  defects engineering,  15  structural modifications,  16  and computational investigations  17  by the researchers in this photovoltaic field. Despite reasonable strides that have been made regarding the performance of PSC devices, there are still some bottlenecks that hinder their commercialization. The main issues that affect the performance of the PSC devices include the instability caused by exposure to air, moisture, and heat, leading to severe degradation of the device;  18  bulk and interfacial defects, which lead to recombination of the photogenerated charges;  19, 20  and toxicity of lead,  21  which has impacts on the human health and environment. Moreover, the high cost of the fabrication of PSCs impedes commercialization, so cheap materials, such as carbon-based electrodes,  22  have been utilized instead of relatively expensive metal-based electrodes, such as gold (Au), platinum (Pt), silver (Ag), and palladium (Pd).  23  Therefore, the continuous drive to develop new environmentally benign, stable, and low-cost materials with excellent optoelectronic properties for high-performance PSC devices is of great importance. Recently, transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs), for example, MoS 2 , TiS 2 , WS 2 , MoSe 2 , and WSe 2 , have become fascinating materials in the photovoltaic community because of their intriguing properties, such as high charge carrier mobility, high optical absorption coefficients and transparency, tunable bandgap, and chemical inertness.  [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30]  In addition, TMDCs and their composites have been applied in various fields, including photocatalysis,  31, 32  field-effect transistors (FETs),  33  and optical sensors.  34  Moreover, the self-passivating effects of TMDCs offer an advantage in reducing both bulk and interfacial defects, which act as recombination sites, thus limiting the performance of the PSC devices.  [35] [36] [37]  The formation of heterostructures with other materials, such as graphitic carbon nitride (g-C 3 N 4 ), graphene, and metal oxides, has shown that the optoelectronic of TMDCs can significantly be enhanced and, therefore, much research on this area needs to be pursued.  25  In quest of improving the performance of TMDCs in photovoltaic applications, doping with heteroatoms and transformation to various configurations, such as nanosheets, quantum dots, and nanorods, have been explored. Recently, interface engineering has become one of the ways of improving the overall performance of PSC devices. In PSCs, the perovskite absorber is sandwiched between an electron transport layer (ETL) and a hole transport layer (HTL).  38  Therefore, it has been established that, at the interface (i.e., between the ETL and absorber or HTL and absorber), detrimental recombination of photogenerated charges can occur and prevent the flow of charges across the interface, thus leading to low device performance.  39, 40  TMDCs have been utilized in the modification of the interface, where they serve a number of significant roles, such as protection of unstable perovskite from degradation by air, light, and humidity; passivation of interfacial defects leading to enhanced charge extraction at the interface;  41  and scalability of the devices to PSC modules.  42  For instance, Capasso et al.  43  incorporated MoS 2 nanoflakes at the absorber perovskite/2,2 ′ ,7, 7 ′ -Tetrakis[N,N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)amino]-9,9 ′ -spiro-bifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD) interface in a device with the following configuration: glass/fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO)/compact-TiO 2 / mesoporous-TiO 2 /CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 /spiro-OMeTAD/Au. Upon the REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv insertion of MoS 2 at the interface, the device with a small area of 0.1 cm 2 achieved a decent PCE of 13% and 11.5% for a scaled-up device with a large area of 1.05 cm  2  . The MoS 2 -modified device showed appreciable stability in maintaining its PCE of 13% for over 550 h compared to the reference. Therefore, advances in utilization of TMDCs in interfaces engineering must be expanded to enhance the actualization of high-performance PSCs. Besides the experimental work to improve the performance of the TMDCs in PSCs, density functional theory (DFT) calculations have been done to unveil deep insights into their optoelectronic properties. The DFT computational codes, such as Gaussian 09,  44  Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP),  45  Cambridge Serial Total Energy Package (CASTEP),  46  WIEN2K,  47  Quantum ESPRESSO,  48  and DMol, 349 are popular in calculating various aspects of structures modeled with TMDCs. For instance, the first-principles calculation on the optical, structural, and electronic properties of tungsten-based TMDCs was investigated computationally by Gul et al.  50  using the WIEN2K computational software. For bandgap calculations, the Tran-Blaha-modified Becke-Johnson potential (TB-mBJ) was used since it gives a more accurate approximation when compared to the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhofgeneralized gradient approximation (PBE-GGA) hybrid functional, which underestimates bandgaps for semiconductors and insulators. Therefore, the calculated bandgap values for WS 2 , WSe 2 , and WTe 2 were 1.86, 1.50, and 1.08 eV, respectively. These tungstenbased nanomaterials exhibited indirect bandgaps suitable for photoharvesting applications. In essence, computational approaches can support experimental approaches by providing more insights into the crucial properties of TMDC materials. Meanwhile, device modeling and simulation have played a crucial role in the understanding of the physics aspects of PSC devices, hence boosting their performance.  11  Many numerical simulators, for instance, wx-Analysis of Microelectronic and Photonic Structures (wxAMPS),  51  Solar Cell Capacitance Simulator (SCAPS-1D),  52, 53  SILVACO ATLAS,  54  and automat for simulation of heterostructures (AFORS-HET),  55  have emerged and have been utilized in simulations of solar cells, particularly PSC devices. In essence, the numerical calculations are based on the three basic semiconductor equations, i.e., the continuity equation, the Poisson equation, and the drift equations for holes and electrons.  56, 57  The impacts of the density of defects, doping level, thicknesses of each component, the use of different back-contacts, and the operation temperature conditions on the device's overall performance have been elucidated in TMDC integrated PSC devices.  58, 59  The computational study of devices provides an excellent platform to examine the best configurations of the device, the selection of appropriate materials, and the optimization of the device before the actual fabrication process. In this Review, we have summarized the recent progress in the utilization of TMDCs for PSC applications. Various modifications on TMDCs to enhance the performance of PSCs have been extensively discussed. The incorporation of TMDCs into various components of the PSC, such as electron transport layer (ETL), hole transport layer (HTL), and interfaces, has been presented with respect to their impacts on PSC performance. The computational studies of the TMDCs materials have been highlighted. Moreover, the numerical modeling and simulation of PSC devices with TMDCs materials have been overviewed. Finally, the current challenges and prospects of TMDCs in the PSC application are pointed out. It is envisaged that this work will be very useful in the future development of high-performance PSCs with TMDC materials for commercialization. 
 II. BRIEF OVERVIEW OF PHOTOVOLTAIC SOLAR CELL GENERATIONS The advancement of photovoltaic technologies has led to the evolution of solar cell devices into four generations over the past 50 years, depending on the modification and materials utilized in the solar cells.  6  The first-generation (1G) solar cells were basically made of pure silicon and gallium arsenide (GaAs) materials in mono-or polycrystalline forms.  60  These solar cells exhibited high performance but were costly to produce, thus creating the need to explore other cheaper solar cells.  61  Consequently, the second-generation (2G) solar cells were unveiled in order to reduce the cost of the firstgeneration solar cells. The second-generation solar cells are made of silicon wafers or amorphous silicon, copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS), and cadmium telluride (CdTe) purposefully to reduce the amount of expensive silicon.  61  Although second-generation solar cells were relatively cheaper, the materials used were toxic, and the devices achieved relatively low performance and stability, limiting their commercialization.  6, 62  With an aim to overcome the challenges of the previous generation solar cells, researchers expanded the search for better alternative solar cells. The third-generation (3G) solar cells, which include PSCs, OSCs, quantum dot-sensitized solar cells (QDSCs), and DSSCs, emerged.  13  The 3G solar cells have inherent advantages, such as solution-processable means, flexibility, and utilization of relatively cheaper materials.  [63] [64] [65]  However, 3G solar cells face some problems that limit their practical applications. For example, PSCs that have achieved a decent PCE of above 25% are unstable, especially in the presence of moisture and light, and have the disadvantage of toxicity of lead, which is the commonly used metal.  66, 67  Similarly, the DSSCs that utilize organic dyes are prone to instability issues due to the evaporation of volatile dyes, and low PCE values are realized. As for OSCs, which are lightweight, flexible, and cheap, they are also unstable (due to heat, moisture, and light exposure) and achieve relatively low PCE values.  68  Inspired by the demerits of the 3G solar cells, researchers have devoted much effort to the development of high-performance next-generation solar cells, i.e., fourth-generation (4G) solar cells. In essence, 4G solar cells are the latest state-of-the-art technology incorporating metal oxides, metal nanoparticles, carbonaceous, and graphene-based materials into the existing 3G solar cell devices.  6, 69  The 4G solar cells are relatively flexible, cheaper, and stable compared to other generations of solar cells.  70  Figure  2  summarizes the four generations of solar cells. The TMDCs are used to modify the 3G PSC devices in order to improve their performance and stability, which this review focuses on. It is worth mentioning that the 1G and 2G solar cells dominate the current market, while the 3G and 4G solar devices are still being worked on for practical applications and commercialization. 
 III. THE PEROVSKITE SOLAR CELLS AND CONFIGURATIONS Perovskite solar cells belong to the third-generation solar cells together with organic and dye-sensitized solar cell devices.  13, 72   Normally, when light falls on the device, the perovskite absorber traps it and excitons are generated because of the low binding energy of excitons. At the same time, the photogenerated charges can be separated and transported across the interfaces because there is a built-in electric field  74  within the intrinsic perovskite layer due to the potential difference between the ETL and HTL materials.  75, 76  The electrons are quickly collected by the ETL material while blocking the holes, and holes are collected by the HTL material while blocking the electrons. The accumulated charges are transported to the respective electrodes and outside the device via the external circuit.  77, 78  The separation of charges is crucial in the performance of a PSC device because when charges recombine immediately after generation, there is no charge available for transportation, and hence no electric current generation. In general, PSC devices have been categorized as conventional or inverted architectures depending on the layer that receives direct illumination from the sun.  79  For traditional design (n-i-p configuration), the ETL is located adjacent to the transparent window, and therefore, the device receives direct light illumination through the ETL material to the absorber. Similarly, in the inverted design (p-i-n configuration), the HTL material is next to the transparent conductive window, which receives sunlight from the device.  80  In addition, PSCs can be classified either as mesoscopic, due to the use of mesoporous metal oxides, such as TiO 2 or Al 2 O 3 , as ETL or HTL materials, or as planar when either the ETL or HTL material utilized has no pores in its structure.  81  With these considerations, four structures of the PSC device, as shown in Fig.  4 , have been reported. Inspired by the need to optimize the performance and commercialization of PSC devices, researchers have fabricated and simulated other unique PSC designs, and these include ETL-free,  82  HTL-free,  83  and tandem  84  PSC devices. Although ETL is crucial in the collection and transportation, it can be eliminated, thus giving rise to a relatively low cost and simpler design of the PSC device.  74, 81  Many of the common ETL materials, for instance, TiO 2 , require a high-temperature synthesis process,  85, 86  which is uneconomical; thus, the ETL material has been eliminated in ETL-free devices to cut the cost and miniaturize devices without compromising on the performance. In addition, for the same reasons, HTL materials can equally be omitted in the fabrication of the PSC device, but proper consideration in terms of the quality of the perovskite absorber needs to be put forth. The perovskite absorber to be used in a HTL-free device should have minimal bulk and interfacial defects, long diffusion path length, and excellent ambipolar properties in order to generate and transport holes to the metal back-contact.  16, 87  Accordingly, interfacial defect reduction is vital in the performance enhancement of the PSC device with ETL or HTL-free devices, and this has been extensively carried out with passivating agents by interface engineering strategies.  44, 45  IV. THE TRANSITION METAL DICHALCOGENIDES Basically, TMDCs are an important class of materials with the general formula MX 2 , where M is the transition metal, such as Mo, W, and Re, while X is the chalcogenide atom, such as sulfur (S), selenium (Se), and tellurium (Te).  46  The typical examples include MoS 2 , MoSe 2 , WS 2 , and WSe 2 semiconductor materials. TMDCs are typically layered materials, such as graphene, graphitic carbon nitride, and boron nitride materials; therefore, they can be exfoliated to nanosheets. Essentially, the layers in TMDCs are held together by weak van der Waals forces of attraction, and a strong covalent bond exists between the metal and chalcogenide atoms. The TMDCs have become competitive in the family of 2D materials because of their attractive attributes, such as excellent optoelectronic properties and, thus, their applications in photovoltaic,  47, 48  electrocatalysis,  49  and spintronics fields.  88  The optoelectronic properties of TMDCs are dependent on the number of layers in the material or the phase, and therefore, in order to modulate the properties, the configuration of the number of layers of a TMDC can be tuned to suit a precise application, such as PSCs.  89  In general, TMDCs exhibit five major configurations, which include hexagonal (H), rhombohedral (R), octahedral (T), distorted octahedral (T ′ ), and orthorhombic (T d ) phases.  51, 72  Therefore, phases such as 2H, 3R 1T, 1T ′ , and T d exist,  52  in which the number before the letters indicates the number of layers as illustrated in Fig.  5 . Transformation of TMDC configurations to suit a particular application is crucial; thus, it needs to be carefully implemented so as to have a material with the ideal properties for specific applications, for example, perovskite solar cells. Because of the existence of different configurations, layers, and elemental compositions, TMDCs have varying bandgap values.  54  However, a monolayer material exhibits a direct large bandgap compared to their bulk material with an indirect bandgap.  55  For instance, monolayer MoS 2 has a bandgap of 1.59 eV and multilayer MoS 2 has a bandgap of about 1.29 eV.  48  It is important to note that the precise phase transition (which usually involves alteration of electron density) of TMDCs can be crucial in paving the way for developing high-performance PSCs. This is because phase transition can allow tuning of the electronic structure and bandgap to suit PSC applications. Currently, various methods that have been put forth for phase transitions include doping, synthesis growth control, thermal treatment, and interlayer coupling. The details of these strategies can be assessed from the dedicated excellent reviews.  46   
 A. Modification of TMDCs for next-generation perovskite solar cell applications Inspired by the need for the commercialization of PSCs, various modifications of TMDCs have been carried out to take advantage of their performance in PSC devices fully. Such structure modulation strategies of TMDCs include doping with heteroatoms, surface functionalization, formation of heterostructures with other nanocomposites, defect engineering, and coupling with carbonaceous materials. In this section, the details of these modifications will be discussed extensively with respect to the perovskite solar cell devices. 
 Exfoliation of TMDCs to 2-dimensional materials As mentioned elsewhere, TMDCs are layered materials, and between the layers, there are weak van der Waals forces of attraction that can easily be broken when subjected to sufficient energy. The nanosheet (2D) materials offer better optoelectronic properties and surface area than the bulk materials due to the quantum confinement effect, and thus the need for exfoliation. The exfoliation routes that have so far been pursued include chemical exfoliation, liquid exfoliation with ultrasonication,  90  mechanical exfoliation (the Scotch-tape method),  91  and chemical vapor deposition (CVD).  90, 92  Liquid-phase exfoliation (LPE) has attracted significant interest in the formation of few-layered materials, such as graphene,  93  g-C 3 N 4  94  , and TMDCs,  95  because of its ease of scaling up and produces a reasonable amount of nanosheets in grams. An appropriate solvent, such as N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), is used during the liquid exfoliation process.  96  The solvent is mixed with the bulk material and sonicated. Essentially, the sonic waves produce energy that is used to break the weak forces between the layers, thus peeling off, and the separated nanosheets can easily be separated by centrifugation. In this method, the basic structure of the material is still maintained and the size of the sheets can be adjusted by controlling the sonication period.  97  Basically, the longer the sonication times, the smaller the sizes, and vice versa. In an attempt to improve the stability of a perovskite solar cell device, Liang et al.  98  introduced 2D TMDC materials, i.e., MoS 2 and MoSe 2 nanoflakes. The flakes were prepared by the liquid exfoliation approach, with N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) as an exfoliating solvent. NMP was chosen because its Hansen and Hildebrand solubility parameters and surface tension are more suitable for 2D materials.  43, 99  Figure  6  shows the typical liquid exfoliation method and characterization of the exfoliated MoS 2 material. With the introduction of exfoliated 2D TMDCs as an interfacial layer between the absorber and HTL, the device showed an appreciable PCE of over 14.9% with relatively longer stability when compared to a pristine device. Similarly, the mechanical exfoliation method has been employed in achieving single-layer TMDC materials from the bulk.  36  This top-down method has been widely applied in the exfoliation of graphene, and a number of reports exist in the literature.  100  The rationale behind this approach is that the layers are held together by weak van der Waals forces of attraction, which can easily be broken, thus efficiently isolating the layers.  101  Ansari et al.  102  ball-milled bulk MoS 2 for 12 h with a speed of about 5000 rpm and obtained MoS 2 nanosheets to prepare composites with polyaniline (PANI). The nanocomposites showed better performance when utilized in supercapacitor electrodes. In addition, mechanical cleavage has been done using Scotch tape (sticky tape). In essence, the bulk TMDC material is placed on a substrate and Scotch tape is placed on the top and judiciously used to peel off the sheets from the bulk material just.  46, 103  This method of exfoliation offers an advantage for the formation of nanosheets with less structural defects. Huang et al.  104  exfoliated TMDCs using gold assisted-mechanical exfoliation approach. The gold substrate was coated with an adhesive layer comprising Ti or Cr. When a small pressure was exerted on top of the bulk material, and thereafter, the tape was removed, few layers of the material were left on the gold surface; hence, exfoliation was complete. Figure  7  illustrates the exfoliation process of the MoS 2 TMDC. More importantly, the exfoliated layers can be carefully obtained by removing the gold using an etchant, a mixture of potassium iodide and iodine (KI and I 2 ), for further applications. Despite the attractive attributes of this method, the Scotch tape approach can be tedious and cannot be easily scaled up. Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method has gained significant scientific interest in the formation of high quality few layered TMDC materials.  105  Typically, the precursor halide materials are heated at high temperatures in a closed vacuum system/inert, i.e., the CVD tube furnace, and as the condensates cooled down, it settles on the strategically placed substrate where the deposition of the few layered material happens.  106  The CVD method, which is a typical example of a bottom-up approach, has been widely used for the deposition of metals, semiconductors, and, of late, TMDCs on substrates for a range of applications.  107  The CVD approach is scalable and produces high quality materials. Furthermore, chemical exfoliation has been widely used to exfoliate layered materials. Graphitic carbon nitride (g-C 3 N 4 )  14  and graphene  108  have been extensively exfoliated chemically. Since bulk TMDCs are layered materials, the interlayer spaces can host some species of chemicals also referred to as intercalants, which, in most cases, are organolithium compounds as presented in Fig.  8 . The presence of intercalants in the host material can weaken the van der Waals forces of attraction between the layers, thus rendering exfoliation easy.  Joh et al.  109  chemically exfoliated bulk WS 2 to sheets by first intercalating the material with about 10 ml of n-butyllithium at a temperature of 100 ○ C while stirring for 3 days; thereafter, the mixture was cleaned using hexane and sonicated, thus completing exfoliation. Huang et al.  110  chemically exfoliated MoS 2 and WS 2 , and the nanosheets were incorporated into the HTL of a PSC. In a typical exfoliation process, bulk MoS 2 and WS 2 were intercalated with about 3 ml of 2.4M butyllithium solution in hexane, for 10 days. After intercalation, the solution mixtures were washed with hexane and separated by filtration. The resulting mixture was ultrasonicated using a mixture of ethanol and water as solvents for the respective exfoliation. Remarkably, the PCE of the fabricated devices exhibited excellent PCE values of 14.35% and 15.00% for MoS 2 and WS 2 , respectively, when the materials were inserted to the HTL layers. The excellent performance and enhanced stability of the devices when compared to pristine devices could be attributed to a better charge transfer mechanism and increased stability brought about by the TMDCs. It was established further that the phase changes due to exfoliation had a direct impact on the performance of the corresponding devices with TMDCs. For example, the TMDCs with 1T-rich MoS 2 showed better photovoltaic performance of about PCE = 13.62%, while the 1T-poor MoS 2 showed about 7.64%. The success of exfoliation can be evaluated using the characterization tools. For instance, Fig.  9  shows the XRD and Raman spectra of bulk and exfoliated MoS 2 and WS 2 TMDCs. From XRD results, it was observed that some peaks in the  
 REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv bulk TMDCs (MoS 2 and WS 2 ) disappeared after exfoliation, suggesting and indicating that exfoliation took place. The Raman peaks of the bulk materials at around 370 and 400 cm -1 shifted to the right (redshift) after the sheets peeled off from the bulk. The redshift could be triggered by the effect of exfoliating the bulk to a few nanosheets, which alters the bond lengths between transitional metal and dichalcogenides atoms as a result of the modifications in the interlayer interaction, thus bringing about the difference in the vibrational modes.  111  In essence, chemical exfoliation results in some structural changes in the resulting sheets and, therefore, can be capitalized in the synthesis of chemically modulated nanosheets.  5  In general, other exfoliation methods of TMDCs that have not been discussed in this Review include metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) and electrochemical exfoliation  112, 113  and have been covered in the recent excellent reviews.  103, 112  2. Doping of TMDCs with heteroatoms Doping of TMDCs with heteroatoms, such as Co, Nb, and S, has become a crucial strategy in the modulation of the optoelectronic properties, for example, bandgap and electrical conductivity, of TMDCs with the aim of incorporation in PSCs. With the introduction of dopants, TMDCs can be tuned to be p-type or n-type semiconductors. However, the degree of doping is of significant consideration because excessive doping leads to the deterioration of TMDCs and the formation of defects, which is not desirable in PSC devices.  114  Essentially, with p-doping, the material will be suitable for incorporation as a HTL material, while with n-type doping, the material will be suitable for utilization as an ETL material in PSCs. As a typical example, Nb-doped MoS 2 is a p-type semiconductor,  28  while Re-doped MoS 2 is an n-type semiconductor.  26  It has been recognized that pristine MoS 2 is a semiconductor with a work function of about 4.5 eV, and it does not meet the requirement to be used as either an ETL or a HTL material and hence the need for doping.  27  Xu et al.  115  demonstrated the contribution of co-doped MoS 2 dopants to the performance of the PSC. Typically, Co-Fe-MoSx (x = 2 or 3) nanocubes in three configurations, i.e., solid (s-Co-Fe-MoSx), core-shell (c-Co-Fe-MoSx), and hollow (h-Co-Fe-MoSx) cobalt and iron co-doped MoS 2 nanocubes, were synthesized and introduced into the PSC as a counter electrode for the first time. The device with c-Co-Fe-MoSx nanocubes showed the highest PCE of 6.88%, while the devices with s-Co-Fe-MoSx and h-Co-Fe-MoSx recorded a PCE of 6.23% and 5.44%, respectively, when used as counter electrodes in PSCs as depicted in Fig.  10(a) . Generally, the appreciable performance of the Co-Fe-MoSx-based devices was attributed to better electron charge transfer due to the intrinsic Co and Fe co-doping. Comparatively, c-Co-Fe-MoSx nanocubes exhibited the best charge transfer characteristics compared to the other configurations, as proven by a small semicircle at the high-frequency region [Fig.  10(b) ]. In another work, Li et al.  116  carried out p-doping of the MoS 2 material via a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) approach. The Nb dopants were deposited on the large area monolayer MoS 2 nanosheets, and they acquired p-type conductivity and are more suitable for utilization as a HTL material. Furthermore, the Nb-doping of MoS 2 was also performed via a computational approach; the MoS 2 was doped by interstitial trapping, substitution, and adsorption technique, as depicted in Fig.  11 . The experimental results obtained corroborate with the computational calculations, i.e., the Nb-doped MoS 2 material was transformed to p-type materials because of doping and thus can be used as a HTL material in PSC devices. Nevertheless, the computational strategies that have been pursued in the improvement of properties of TMDCs and the performance of PSC devices will be discussed extensively in Sec. IV C. Notably, there are few reports on the application of doped TMDC materials in PSC devices, and therefore, this area needs further exploration to enhance the performance and potential commercialization of doped TMDC-based PSCs. 
 Formation of heterostructures The formation of heterostructures has gained tantamount scientific attraction in the development of materials with enhanced optoelectronic properties because the formation of effective hetero- junctions at the interfaces leads to a fast charge transfer mechanism.  117  In general, nanocomposites, for instance MoS 2 /TiO 2 , exhibit better electrical, optical, and magnetic properties than the individual components, a synergistic effect phenomenon.  118  The formation of heterojunctions by combining TMDCs with other materials, such as metal oxides (for instance, WSe 2 /ZnO),  119  and the same (WS 2 /WS 2 )  120  or different kinds (MoS 2 /WS 2 )  121  of TMDCs plays a crucial role in transferring photogenerated charges in PSCs. Sui et al.  31  have recently constructed a type II heterojunction between the WS 2 quantum dots (QDs) and AgIn5S 8 QDs heterostructure. The essence of the introduction of AgIn5S 8 QDs was to passivate the sulfur vacancy defects in WS 2 quantum dots and to improve the charge transfer characteristics at the interface between the two materials. Ultimately, when the WS 2 /AgIn5S 8 QDs were incorporated as the HTL material in a PSC device, the best-performing device achieved a decent PCE of 10.24%, ascribed to fast charge extraction and transfer of HTL. Remarkably, the WS 2 /AgIn5S 8 -based PSC exhibited high stability of about 93% PCE retention even after being stored under high temperatures and humid air conditions. The characterization of the as-prepared sample revealed a number of important aspects of the nanocomposite formed, as depicted in Fig.  12 . In brief, Fig.  12(b)  shows that the quantum dots were successfully formed because the average dimension of the nanoparticles was less than 9 nm, and an intimate structure between the two quantum dots was formed. For WS 2 /AgIn5S 8 QDs, there was a shift of S 2p to higher binding energy when compared to pristine WS 2 QDs, indicating that sulfur defects were reduced [Fig.  12(c )], which is also depicted in Fig.  12(d) . Moreover, photoluminescence (PL) spectra of the as-prepared materials are displayed in Fig.  12 (e), and it can be observed that the PL intensity of the WS 2 /AgIn5S 8 QDs was higher than that of WS 2 QDs, suggesting that non-radiative recombination was significantly reduced in the composites. In addition to the change in the PL intensity, there was also a blueshift with respect to WS 2 QDs when AgIn5S 8 was introduced, which was attributed to the defect passivation by AgIn5S 8 QDs.  122  Evidently, the average carrier lifetime for the composite (1.98 ns) was higher than that of pure WS 2 (0.98 ns), as extracted from Fig.  12 (f). Generally, defects in the material act as Shockley-Read-Hall non-radiative centers, which entice the photogenerated charges, thus decreasing their speed and thereby enabling easy recombination.  23  Despite MoS 2 exhibiting attractive attributes, such as intrinsic defects that lead to the recombination of photogenerated charges, it limits its applications in PSC devices.  123  Therefore, its properties need to be improved by forming heterostructures synergistically with other materials.  [124] [125] [126]  Khan et al.  127   performance was attributed to fast charge transfer characteristics at the HTL because of doping. Typically, PAS/MoS 2 nanocomposites were prepared via sonication process as illustrated in Fig.  13 . As mentioned elsewhere, the high concentration of dopants may affect the properties of the material negatively. In addition, for PSC devices, a high doping concentration may lead to poor performance of the device. Moreover, Dai et al.  128  further investigated the impact of dosage of the as-prepared MoS 2 /PAS nanocomposite on the devices. It was established that when the concentration of the MoS 2 /PAS nanocomposite in PEDOT:PSS blends was increased from 0 to 3 mg ml -1 , the PCE also increased from 14.69% to 16.47%. However, when the concentration was increased further to 5 mg ml -1 , the PCE decreased, but the stability apparently remains the same for devices with dopants (Fig.  14 ). 
 Coupling with carbonaceous materials Coupling TMDCs with carbonaceous materials, such as graphene and its derivatives, graphitic carbon nitride,  129  carbon nanotubes (CNTs),  38  and multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNTs),  130  has attracted a lot of scientific attention in  
 REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv the photovoltaic field. This is because carbonaceous materials, for instance, MWCNTs, have intriguing conductivity (about 49.49 S cm -1 ),  131  stability, and optical (optical bandgap of 1.82 eV)  132  and electronic properties, which are crucial in the PSCs. Carbonaceous materials have been known to be excellent passivating agents and have been utilized to heal both the interstitial and interfacial defects and therefore can be ideal materials to form excellent TMDC hybrids.  133  For instance, g-C 3 N 4 was used by Liu et al.  134  as the interfacial layer between the SnO 2 ETL and the perovskite absorber layer to passivate the defects, and it enhanced charge collection/transfer at the interface. Remarkably, the g-C 3 N 4 interface-engineered device exhibited an excellent PCE of 21.23% with insignificant power losses. It has been established that defects act as Shockley-Read-Hall non-radiative centers, which trap photogenerated charges, hence causing defect recombination, which is detrimental to solar cell performance.  23  Najafi et al.  135  coupled functionalized reduced graphene oxide (f-RGO) with MoS 2 quantum dots to form a composite. Typically, the f-RGO was functionalized with (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxysilane through a silanizationmediated chemical bonding process,  136  while the MoS 2 was obtained from the liquid phase exfoliation of MoS 2 flakes. The dispersion containing MoS 2 QDs and f-RGO was formed via a mechanomixing approach, typically by mixing the dispersions of each component. The synthesized materials were utilized in the interface between the HTL and the perovskite absorber layer as active buffer layers (ABLs), and also, as HTL with the absence of 2,2 ′ ,7,7 ′ -tetrakis(N,N-dip-methoxyphenylamine)9,9 ′ -spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD) in a PSC device with the general configuration of fluorine doped tin oxide (FTO)/cTiO 2 /mTiO 2 /MAPbI 3 /ABL (MoS 2 QDs or f-RGO or MoS 2 QDs:f-RGO)/spiro-OMeTAD/Au. Figure  15  shows the J-V characteristics, the recombination rates of photogenerated charges, and the incident PCE of devices with the dopants or without. The assimilation of f-RGO to MoS  
 REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv MoS 2 QDs:f-RGO as an ABL was about 13.5%, 11.2%, and 8.8%, respectively. The high stability exhibited by the devices was credited to the passivation of surface defects, thus reducing the iodine migration to the spiro-OMeTAD HTL material. In another investigation, Qian et al.  137  combined a mixture of 1D and 2D MoS 2 with single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) to form a MoS 2 -SWCNTs heterostructure material. The as-prepared MoS 2 -SWCNTs material was incorporated in PSCs as the HTL. The fabricated PSCs with MoS 2 -SWCNTs showed an excellent PCE of above 20% when compared to the pristine device (PCE of 15%) with spiro-OMeTAD as the HTL. Furthermore, Liu et al.  138  synthesized CNTs/MoS 2 , CNTs/MoSe 2 , and CNTs/MoTe 2 nanocomposites. The as-prepared materials were introduced to the absorber layer of a PCS with a general architecture, with indium tin oxide (ITO)/PEDOT:PSS/ MAPbI 3 /[6,6]-phenyl C 61 butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM)/LiF/Al as dopants. Remarkably, the PSC device achieved an appreciable PCE of about 12.57% with MoTe 2 /CNTs nanocomposites as additives in the absorber layer. The exhibited high PCE was ascribed to better charge transfer due to the presence of very conductive CNTs and less recombination of the photogenerated charges resulting from utilizing MoTe 2 /CNTs, which served as a defect passivating agent. 
 B. Applications of TMDCs in perovskite solar cells Recently, TMDCs have been utilized in various parts of the PSC devices, comprising the electron transport layer, the hole transport layer, and the absorber as an additive or as the main component of the respective part. In this section, the specific use of TMDCs on various parts of the device will be discussed with reference to their advantages and some crucial modifications. Interestingly, TMDCs, when modified, can offer unprecedented properties essential for enhancing the performance of PSC devices. 
 Incorporation of TMDCs in the electron transport layers As part of the components of the PSC device, the electron transport layer plays a critical role in blocking the holes that collect and transport electrons to the electrode. An ETL material should have good electrical conductivity, transparency, and high electron mobility.  139  The commonly used ETL materials include TiO 2 , ZnO, and SnO 2 140 because they are more stable than organic-organicbased ETL material counterparts and exhibit relatively high electron transport mobilities. However, these materials have intrinsic defects that act as recombination centers, thus limiting their practical applicability. In addition, due to the large grain boundaries, interfacial recombination is common in these semiconductor ETL materials. Nevertheless, TMDCs have shown promising properties that can be exploited to develop effective ETL materials. The TMDC materials that have recently gained significant interest as ETL materials in PSCs include WS 2 , MoS 2 , titanium disulfide (TiS 2 ),  141  and tantalum (IV) sulfide (TaS 2 ).  139  Among these TMDC materials, MoS 2 has been well reported in the literature as an ETL and HTL material due to its high charger carrier mobility of about 50-200 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , 142 ease of synthesis, modulation of work function (between 5.25 and 5.39 eV for about one to six layers),  143  and less intrinsic density of defects. In order to exploit the optoelectronic properties of MoS 2 nanosheets as an ETL material in PSCs, Abd Malek et al.  144  coated ITO glass substrates directly with MoS 2 precursor solutions using a spray pyrolysis approach. Typically, the optimization was carried out by spraying different preheated (at temperatures of 180, 200, 220, and 250 ○ C) ITO substrates with MoS 2 nanosheet precursor solutions. The as-prepared MoS 2 coated films were utilized to fabricate a PSC device, and the champion device (from ITO heated at 200 ○ C) reached a PCE of 3.36%. It is worth mentioning that the achieved PCE was relatively low compared to the best devices already reported in the literature and was attributed to the presence of MoS 2 nanoparticle impurities. In addition to the improved PCE, the best device showed appreciable stability because it can retain about 90% of its original PCE for a duration of 80 s under constant 1.5 air mass (AM) sunlight irradiation. Afzali et al.  139  synthesized double-layered TaS 2 (2H-TaS 2 ) nanosheet films via a quick and robust microwave method. In brief, a precursor solution containing 10 mM of tantalum chloride (TaCl5), 100 mM of hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S), and 100 mM KCl was mixed under magnetic stirring. Thereafter, the solution was dropped on a p++ silicon wafer, and then, a cleaned FTO glass was placed on top of a silicon wafer to form a sandwich. The sandwich was then annealed at 300 ○ C on a hot plate before being taken to the microwave oven for the synthesis of 2H-TaS 2 films. Finally, the 2H-TaS 2 nanosheet film was formed by removing the p++ silicon wafer. Figure  16  shows the schematic process of synthesizing 2H-TaS 2 nanosheet films. The as-prepared double-layered 2H-TaS 2 nanosheets were used as an ETL material in the fabrication of a planar PSC device with the general architecture of glass/FTO/ETL/perovskite layer/poly(3-hexylthiophene (P3HT)/Ag. For comparison purposes, compact ETL materials, TiO 2 and SnO 2 , were also deposited on the FTO substrates, and their respective devices were fabricated. After fabrication of the devices, the PCE for devices with 2H-TaS 2 , TiO 2 , and SnO 2 as an ETL material was 15.23%, 16.21%, and 15.82%, respectively. Remarkably, the performance of the 2H-TaS 2 -based device was decently comparable to TiO 2 -and SnO 2 -based devices, an indication that 2H-TaS 2 can replace them as an ETL material. The exhibited performance of 2H-TaS 2 -based device could be ascribed to the excellent transparency of the asfabricated films, which absorbed much light within the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum, and to the fast charge transfer mechanism (high electrical conductivity). Interestingly, the 2H-TaS 2 device had a sustained PCE of 90% over a 20 day period, similar to devices utilizing SnO 2 and TiO 2 as ETLs, suggesting that it was reasonably stable. The results can pave the way for the fabrication and commercialization of 2H-TaS 2 nanosheets-based PSC devices. Similarly, Malek et al.  145  demonstrated that the ultrathin WS 2 nanosheets with few layers can be utilized as an effective ETL material in PSC devices. Double-layered hexagonal phase WS 2 (2H-WS 2 ) films were achieved by depositing the precursor material on the hot ITO glass substrates at a temperature of 350 ○ C using an ultrasonic pyrolysis approach with an air humidifier spray system.  146  The fabricated device with WS 2 nanosheets (WS50 sample) as an ETL material attained an excellent PCE of 15.97%, and the device without the TMDC as an ETL material attained a relatively low PCE of 9.94%. This indicates that the WS 2 nanosheets contributed to the effective electron transfer mechanism and hence exhibited high performance compared with the device without the TMDC as an ETL material. The other photovoltaic parameters of the champion device were Voc = 1.07 V, Jsc = 21.69 mA cm -2 , and FF = 0.688%, while the parameters for the device without WS 2 are Voc = 0.80 V, Jsc = 21.80 mA cm -2 , and FF = 0.570% and are depicted in Fig.  17 . Furthermore, the addition of WS 2 nanosheets to the device resulted in increased stability, as demonstrated by the fact that the fabricated device maintained around 96.87% of its optimal PCE for more than 790 h under nitrogen environment. Finally, Yin et al.  141  synthesized 2D-TiS 2 nanosheets by facile solution exfoliation. When employed in a PSC device as an ETL, the as-prepared nanosheets delivered an excellent PCE of over 17%, while the ETL-free device achieved a PCE of 8.71%. The best performance exhibited by the TiS 2 -based device was attributed to the high electron mobility and proper band alignment between the TiS 2 ETL and the perovskite absorber, and thus fast charge transport characteristics. In order to establish the suitability of TiS 2 in the fabrication of flexible PSCs, a device on the poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET)/ITO substrate was fabricated and bending tests were carried out. The resulting flexible PSCs demonstrated an appreciable mechanical stability since it could sustain over 90% of its initial PCE (12.75%), even after 300 bending cycles at a radius of curvature of about 12 mm. On the other hand, the ultraviolet (UV) stability of the TiS 2 material was also carried out using a photocatalytic degradation of Na 2 SO 4 solution experiment. Basically, photocatalytic activities of ETL materials can impact the stability of the perovskite films; for instance, TiO 2 has been established to be a good photocatalyst and can also degrade the perovskite materials in the device.  147  The TiS 2 films showed a relatively low photocatalytic degradation impact under UV irradiation when compared with TiO 2 -based films, indicating that it would not degrade much the perovskite material and thus leading to relatively more stable devices. In essence, substituting materials that are UV-active, such  as TiO 2 , with less inactive materials, such as TiS 2 , could assist in reducing the perovskite degradation, which leads to detrimental impacts on performance.  148   
 Incorporation of TMDCs in the hole transport layers Basically, the HTL is important in PSCs because it extracts holes and blocks the electrons, thus facilitating exciton dissociation and transportation, which are crucial to solar cell performance.  149  Inspired by the need to commercialize PSC devices, scientists over the years have put more effort into the development of effective HTL materials, which are more efficient in terms of stability and hole transport properties. Notably, the HTL materials can themselves be unstable and consequently initiate the degradation of devices. For instance, the commonly used spiro-OMeTAD HTL material is expensive and suffers from the problem of instability,  150  particularly in the presence of additives, moisture, and UV-light.  151  At present, TMDCs are very competitive HTL materials for PSC devices because of their attractive optoelectronic properties, tunable work functions, self-passivating surfaces, and chemical stabilities.  140  In addition, TMDCs can be used as ETL and HTL materials in PSC devices because of their unique ambipolar properties;  141  hence, the same materials discussed as ETL materials will also be discussed in this section. Asif et al.  152  fabricated TiS 2 nanosheets thin films using an electrodeposition approach from ionic liquids. In a nutshell, the electrodeposition was carried out with a choline chloride/urea eutectic mixture as an ionic liquid electrolyte at a temperature of 80 ○ C, while sulfur was sourced from sodium thiosulfate (Na 2 S 2 O 3 ) and titanium was sourced from titanium(IV) chloride (TiCl 4 ). It was established that the as-prepared TiS 2 nanosheet films exhibited p-type characteristics with a descent hole mobility of 14.4 cm 2 V -1 s -1 as measured from the hall experiments, thus showing great potential in the application as a HTL material in PSCs. In the quest for better alternatives to the unstable organic PEDOT:PSS as a HTL material, Kim et al.  153  synthesized MoS 2 and WS 2 via the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method and graphene oxide (GO) from Hummer's method. The prepared materials were utilized as HTL materials, and the fabricated devices with TMDCs and GO exhibited a comparable PCE as the reference cell with PEDOT:PSS as a HTL. The PCE for MoS 2 , WS 2 , PEDOT:PSS, and GO was 9.53%, 8.02%, 9.9%, and 9.62%, respectively. This corroborated other works that TMDCs can be used as HTL materials in the PSC device and as a suitable replacement for the unstable organic PEDOT:PSS.  154  In addition, Dasgupta et al.  155  used a simple method of deposition of MoS 2 onto ITO thin films for PSC applications. Typically, the MoS 2 nanosheet solution in NMP (obtained from liquid exfoliation) was cast centrifugally onto ITO substrates. To get the different thicknesses of MoS 2 layers, more MoS 2 solution was added to the contents of the centrifuge tube, and the process was repeated in order to achieve the anticipated thickness. Upon utilizing the MoS 2 nanosheets (containing six layers), the fabricated PSCs achieved the highest PCE of 6.01%, while the pristine achieved a relatively low PCE of 1.76%. The improvement in the performance was attributed to the low recombination rate in the device due to the assimilation of MoS 2 nanosheets as HTL materials. Meanwhile, Chang et al.  22   (PMMA)/C 60 /Al-doped ZnO (AZO)/silver as illustrated in Fig.  18 . The thin FTO/MoSe 2 HTL films were achieved by means of a radio frequency (RF) magnetron sputtering approach. The MoSe 2 gun was used to supply the MoSe 2 materials onto a cleaned FTO substrate, while the optimized conditions for sputtering were set at the RF of 85 W, the argon gas flow rate of 55 standard cm 3 min -1 , and the pressure of below 6.6 × 10 4 Pa. When the films were subjected to different annealing temperatures (450, 550, or 650 ○ C) and applied in the fabrication of respective devices, it was established that the performance was temperature-dependent. In essence, the PCE reached by the device with FTO/MoSe 2 films annealed at temperatures of 450, 550, and 650 ○ C was 15.5%, 16.4%, and 17.1%, respectively, an indication that a higher annealing temperature resulted in the formation of a more polycrystalline structure with a reduced number of recombination sites and thus improved performance. After optimizing the thicknesses (HTL, ETL, and perovskite absorber components) and the annealing temperatures of FTO/MoSe 2 HTL films, the best performing device attained an excellent PCE of 18.01%. 
 Incorporation of TMDCs in the absorber layer The absorber layer is a crucial part of the PSC device because this is where the generation and separation of photogenerated excitons take place when the device is illuminated with radiant energy.  156  The perovskite absorber materials, for instance, methyl ammonium lead iodide (CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 ),  157  formamidinium tin iodide [HC(NH 2 ) 2 SnI 3 ],  158  cesium lead bromide (CsPbBr 3 ),  159  and methyl ammonium tin iodide (CH 3 NH 3 SnI 3 ),  160  have been widely used in the fabrication of PSC devices because of their long diffusion paths, better light absorption coefficients, and high carrier charge mobilities.  161  Despite these attractive attributes of absorber materials, they suffer from interstitial defects during the formation of the perovskite film.  162, 163  It has been unveiled that the imperfections in the PSC devices are detrimental because they trap the photogenerated charges, leading to the recombination and slow rate of charge collection at the electrodes.  164  To passivate the defects and improve the charge transport characteristics of the absorber and the stability, the incorporation of TMDC additives has become one of the ways to overcome this challenge.  165  Li et al.  166  passivated the perovskite absorber of a PSC device with laser-generated WS 2 quantum dots. In brief, the WS 2 QDs were prepared by dispersing about 2 mg of WS 2 nanoparticles in 20 ml ethyl acetate and sonication. The resulting solution of about 4 ml was collected and irradiated with a pulse laser beam for 10 min to form WS 2 QDs. The as-prepared WS 2 QDs solution was later poured onto the CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 perovskite film and annealed at a temperature of 100 ○ C for about 10 min to achieve a high-quality film. Figure  19  shows the SEM images of pristine films with relatively rougher and more cracked surfaces, while the WS 2 QDs-modified perovskites were smoother with fewer crack films. The carbon electrode-based PSC device was finally fabricated, and the optimized device achieved a PCE of 16.85%, which was about a 27% performance improvement compared to the pristine device, with a PCE of 13.27%. The enhanced performance of the device with WS 2 additives in the absorber was ascribed to the surface defects passivation, reduced recombination, and fast charge transfer characteristics. The passivation of defects was effectively caused by forming a Pb-S bond from unbonded Pb 2+ ions in the perovskite. In addition, the fabricated device with WS 2 dopants in the absorber could still exhibit about 71% of its original PCE for a period of 50 days when subjected to a 30%-50% humid indoor environment. Furthermore, Taurisano et al.  167  performed a comparative investigation of the impact of MoS 2 nanosheets on the performance of two archetypal perovskite materials, i.e., MAPbI 3 and triplecation with mixed halides Csx(MA 0.17 FA 0.83 ) (1-x) Pb (I 0.83 Br 0.17 ) 3 (CsMAFAPbIBr) perovskite-based PSCs (Fig.  20 ). The MoS 2 was mixed with perovskite precursor solutions (MAPbI 3 and CsMAFAPbIBr) and spin-coated on the poly[bis(4-phenyl) (2,4,6trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA) film on ITO glass. The fabricated device with the MAPbI 3 perovskite and the MoS 2 additives showed an excellent performance enhancement of 15%, while CsMAFAP-bIBr perovskites showed no significant performance improvement with dopants. The enhanced performance in MAPbI 3 is attributed to the formation of large grain sizes with the embedment of MoS 2 nanosheets. Evidently, the inclusion of additives in the absorber has different impacts on the performance depending on the absorber material being engineered with TMDCs. Therefore, in the case of CsMAFAPbIBr, the MoS 2 additives negatively impacted the performance, suggesting that there could have been recombination due to the presence of MoS 2 additives. 
 Interface engineering of PSCs with TMDCs Interface engineering strategy has witnessed momentous growth in modifying high-performance PSC devices.  168  It has been reported that significant charge losses occur at the interfaces due to the defects, which trap photogenerated charges and hence impede the transfer/collection at the electrodes.  168  Moreover, the trapped charges at the interfaces and grain boundaries have been ascribed to cause permanent degradation of the device in the presence of moisture, especially at the interface between the HTL and perovskite absorber, which is more susceptible.  169, 170  To mitigate these inevitable challenges of poor charge transport and stability at the interfaces, TMDCs have been incorporated as interfacial passivating agents, owing to their intriguing optoelectronic properties, self-passivated surfaces, and charge transfer characteristics. Hemasiri et al.  
 C. Computational studies of TMDCs for fourth-generation perovskite solar cell applications Theoretical modeling based on DFT has become crucial in studying TMDC materials for various applications, particularly perovskite solar cells. Studying materials at the atomic level is essential since it gives more insights into the materials' intriguing optoelectronic properties. Computational calculations have been applied to investigate the optoelectronic properties of the TMDC materials, such as the bandgap values, optical transparency, work functions, dielectric constants, loss function, and density of states (DOS).  50, [174] [175] [176]  The DFT has become a popular quantum mechanical theory that considers the electron density and calculates the electronic structure of atoms, molecules, and solids.  177  It is the most widely used in theoretical simulations and implemented in many computational codes.  178  Recently, state-of-the-art material science DFT computational codes have been developed, which include Gaussian 09,  179  Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP),  180  CASTEP, 181 WIEN2K,  182  Quantum ESPRESSO,  183  and DMol 3 .  184  On the other hand, numerical simulation of PSC devices has gained momentum in recent times because it offers flexible ways of theoretically studying various properties of the devices. The main photovoltaic characteristics of the devices that have so far been simulated include power conversion efficiency (PCE), fill factor (FF), short circuit current density (Jsc), open-circuit voltage (Voc), quantum efficiency (QE), current density curves (J-V curves), the effect of thickness, defect density, quantum yield, and doping densities of the various layers. Therefore, in this section, two computational modeling approaches will be summarized, i.e., the DFT calculations of the optoelectronic properties of the TMDCs and the numerical simulation of PSC devices with TMDC materials in any of the components.  
 The first-principles calculations of TMDCs optoelectronic properties The density functional theory calculations have become very handy in studying TMDC materials. The study of optoelectronic properties, such as bandgap, density of state, optical transparency, optical absorption, band structure, loss, and dielectric function, is significant in photovoltaic applications. Roy and Bermel 30 performed a DFT calculation on WS 2 using the quantum ESPRESSO computational software. In brief, the computational details were the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) pseudopotential of the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) scheme implemented in calculating the optoelectronic properties. The Brillouin zone sampling was carried out on Monkhorst-Pack on a 20 × 20 × 1 k-point mesh, with 400 k-points, while the minimum energy cutoff was set at 20 Ry. Because the 2D-WS 2 was considered, a vacuum of 20 Å was added to separate the two horizontal planes. The calculated bandgap of WS 2 was 0.97 eV, which did not agree with the experimental values. It has been established that the GGA underestimates the bandgap energy of the material; therefore, there is a need to correct the bandgap. In the Quantum ESPRESSO code, a GW approximation method is available, and the corrected value is added to the DFT calculated bandgap. The GW approximation energy value was 0.32 eV; therefore, the accurate bandgap energy was finally computed as an indirect bandgap value of 1.29 eV, as depicted in the band structure diagram in Fig.  22 . The bandgap of 1.29 eV of the WS 2 material was ideal for photovoltaic applications. Liao et al.  185  constructed the MoS 2 /CsPbBr 3 heterostructure theoretically, unveiling the optical and electronic properties for potential application in PSC devices. The first-principles calculations were performed on the Vienna Ab Initio Simulation Package (VASP), with the GGA exchange-correlation energy potential described by the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) scheme. The selfconsistent calculation (SCF) and bandgap structure calculation were carried out on a Monkhorst-Pack K-point mesh with dimensions 2 × 4 × 1, and a cutoff energy of 450 eV was considered sufficient. The problem of underestimation of the bandgap of heterostructures by GGA potentials was resolved accordingly with the inclusion of the hybrid functional HSE06 in the calculations. Therefore, the band structure was unraveled and is presented in Fig.  23 . The pure MoS 2 and CsPbBr 3 showed different band structures. However, the band structure of the heterostructure was established as a combination of the band structures, indicating that the heterostructure was formed without destroying the structure of the individual components. The heterostructure formed exhibited better light absorption due to the reduction in bandgap, which is more beneficial in PSC applications.  
 Numerical simulation of fourth-generation perovskite solar cell devices 
 REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv years. The common numerical simulators include wx-Analysis of Microelectronic and Photonic Structures (wxAMPS),  186  Solar Cell Capacitance Simulator (SCAPS-1D), 4,187 SILVACO ATLAS,  188  automat for simulation of heterostructures (AFORS-HET),  189  Personal Computer One-Dimensional (PC1D),  190  and general-purpose photovoltaic device model (GPVDM).  191  These simulators have various advantages and disadvantages, and one can have an opportunity to choose the one that suits the needs; such aspects can be accessed in the recently published works.  192, 193  It is worth mentioning that, among this pack of simulators, SCAPS-1D software, which was developed by Professor Marc Bulgelman and his research team at the University of Ghent, Belgium, has been widely used because it is free and gives results that are very close to experimental values.  194  Fundamentally, these simulators solve the three governing semiconductor differential equations, i.e., the continuity equations of hole and electrons, drift and diffusion current equations, and the Poisson equation, which describes the charge transfer phenomenon in one dimension.  195  The simulators can generate all the basic photovoltaic parameters, such as open circuit voltage (Voc), fill factor (FF), current density (Jsc), PCE, recombination profiles, quantum efficiency, and defect densities of the devices. Meanwhile, here are the descriptions of the semiconductor differential equations used in the simulation. The electron and hole continuity equations are represented, respectively, as ∂j n ∂x + G -Un(n, p) = 0 (1) - ∂j p ∂x + G -Up(n, p) = 0 (2) where j n is the current density for electron, jp is the current density for the hole, Un,p is the effective recombination rate, and G is the generation rate of either holes or electrons.  191, 195, 196  Essentially, the continuity equations describe the device's generation and recombination characteristics of holes and electrons. On the other hand, the Poisson equation can be expressed as ∂ 2 ψ ∂ 2 x = - ∂E ∂x = - ρ εs = - q εs [ p -n + N + D (x) -N - A (x) ± N def (x)] (3) where ψ is the electrostatic potential, εs is the static permittivity of free space (relative), q is the elementary charge, n is the density of an electron, p is the density of a hole, N + D is the density of the ionized donors, N - A is the density of ionized acceptors, and N def is the density of defects of the acceptor or donor.  191  Essentially, Poisson's equation illustrates the relationship between the electric field potential and the concentration of charges in a semiconductor material. Finally, the drift and diffusion currents equations, which govern the movement of the electrons and holes, can be expressed, respectively, as j n = Dn dn dx + μ n n d∅ dx (4) j p = Dp dn dx + μ p p d∅ dx ( 5 ) where Dn is the coefficient of electron diffusion, μn is the mobility of electrons, Dp is the diffusion coefficient of the hole, μp is the mobility of the hole, and ∅ is the electrostatic potential.  197  According to Eqs. (  4 ) and (  5 ), the drift of holes or electrons is caused by the electric field, while the diffusion is due to the difference in electron or hole concentration. During the simulation of the PSC device, the primary input parameters that represent the materials are gathered from the published theoretical and experimental papers. Sobayel et al.  198  computationally investigated a PSC device with the WS 2 material as an ETL, as depicted in Fig.  24(a) . WS 2 was selected because of its promising optoelectronic properties, such as high electron mobility of 260 cm 2 V -1 s -1 and suitable band alignment with the absorber [Fig.  24(b) ]. The modeling was carried out with a SCAPS-1D simulator, and the device's performance was optimized. The optimized device attained a PCE of 25.07%, Jsc of 25.483 mA cm -2 , Voc of 1.056 V, and FF of 88.54%. It was elucidated that the absorber amphoteric defects were more detrimental to the device's performance than the interfacial defects. The amphoteric defects were kept at the value of 10 15 cm -3 , while the interfacial defects were maintained at the value of 10 16 cm -3 . Chakraborty et al.  199  modeled a HTL-free PSC with the configuration of FTO/ZnO/WS 2 /CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 /Au, using SCAPS-1D computational software. Various device physics aspects, including the effect of doping density of the absorber, thicknesses of the layers, the impact of the interfacial defects, and the density of defects of the absorber, were investigated concerning the device performance. It was noted that the device's performance decreased monotonously (from a PCE of 18.20% to 0.09%) as a function of the increasing absorber density of defects when varied from 10 13 up to 10 20 cm 3 . This decrease in PCE was ascribed to the increased recombination of photogenerated holes and electrons due to increased absorber trap sites. Moreover, the gradient doping of the absorber led to the performance enhancement of the device because doping induced the formation of electric fields that boosted the charge transfer mechanism of holes and electrons. Overall, the optimized PSC device with a WS 2 interlayer attained an appreciable performance of 26.25%. Rono et al.  200  computationally investigated a lead-free perovskite device with the following general configuration: FTO/WS 2 /BaZrS 3 /HTL/Au. The proposed and tested HTL materials were Cu 2 O, CuSCN, and P3HT. The performance of each device was optimized, and the best device (PCE of 13.86%) was established to be with P3HT as the HTL. The best performance for the P3HT-based device was attributed to better light trapping of the P3HT material, because of its lowest bandgap value of 1.85 eV compared to the other tested materials. Moreover, the operational temperature of the devices was varied between 240 and 400 K, and it was found that P3HT-based devices could only operate up to a temperature of 320 K, while the devices with CuSCN and Cu 2 O as HTLs showed photovoltaic performance up to 400 K. The relatively high thermal stability of the devices with inorganic HTLs (CuSCN and Cu 2 O) was attributed to the formation of a more compact structure, which can withstand high temperatures when compared to organic based-P3HT materials. Table  I  summarizes the other TMDC-based devices simulated with the SCAPS-1D computational software.   
 V. SUMMARY, CHALLENGES, AND PROSPECTS In this review, the recent advances in modifying TMDCs for PSC applications have been systematically reviewed. The utilization of the DFT calculations in the study of intriguing optoelectronic properties of the TMDCs has been highlighted. In addition, the modeling and simulations of the TMDC-based PSC devices have been pointed out. More importantly, the fundamental equations that are useful in modeling PSC devices and the state-of-the-art numerical simulators, such as SCAPS-1D, SILVACO Atlas, and GPVDM, have been discussed. It has been established that the simulation of PSCs aids in the deep understanding of the device physics aspects that could otherwise not be accessible via an experimental approach. TMDCs have shown great potential in improving the performance of PSC devices, propelling their commercialization. These can be achieved by tuning the optoelectronic properties of TMDCs by strategies such as doping with heteroatoms, formation of heterojunctions, and transformation to other configurations (nanosheets, quantum dots, and nanorods) from exfoliation of bulk materials. The ambipolar nature of high charge transport mechanisms of TMDC materials enables them to be utilized as a HTL or an ETL in PSC devices since their work function and bandgap are tunable. Moreover, the excellent optical absorption coefficients and transparency of TMDCs allow their incorporation as additives in the absorber layer of PSCs to boost light harvesting. TMDCs have self-passivating surfaces, crucial in healing bulk defects when REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/adv incorporated in the absorber and the interfacial defects when used in the layer boundaries via interface engineering. The reduction in defects leads to improvements in the performance of PSC devices because of suppressed recombination of the photogenerated charges. The recombination of photogenerated charges leads to power losses and can encourage device degradation due to accumulated charges within the device. Although TMDCs have attractive attributes when incorporated into PSC devices, a number of issues still warrant addressing so that their full potential is exploited in the PSC devices. The mechanism of how TMDCs assist in the passivation of defects in the PSC devices is still unclear, and research effort needs to be spent to explain such key processes; therefore, it can assist in designing effective TMDC passivating agents. Even though doping of TMDCs is crucial in the modulation of the optoelectronics properties of the material, few reports exist in the literature on the utilization of doped-TMDC materials in 4G-PSC devices, showing the need to further expand this area to improve the performance of PSCs. Fabrication of small surface area PSCs with TMDCs has been successful thus far, but for practical and commercialization, large surface area devices need to be produced by utilizing modified roll-to-roll existing production processes in the future. Finally, TMDC materials have shown incredible potential in developing high-performance and stable 4G-PSC devices. It is also anticipated that using TMDC materials in the PSC devices will pave the way for developing flexible, wearable, and "smart" TMDC-based PSCs in the future. The review is envisaged to guide scientists and nanotechnologists interested in improving PSC performance using TMDCs and computational approaches. FIG. 1 . 1 FIG. 1.NREL chart showing the current trends in power conversion efficiency of solar cells over a period of four decades. The perovskite solar cell has attained a PCE of over 26.1%. Adapted from NREL, Best research-cell efficiency chart, 2023, available at: https://www.nrel.gov/pv/interactive-cell-efficiency.html. 24   
 FIG. 2 . 4 © 24 FIG. 2. Different types of solar cells and respective generations. Adapted from J. Pastuszak and P. Węgierek, "Photovoltaic cell generations and current research directions for their development," Materials 15, 5542 (2022). Copyright 2022 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 71   
 FIG. 4 .FIG. 5 . 45 FIG. 4. Configurations of PSC devices: (a) n-i-p mesoscopic, (b) n-i-p planar, (c) p-i-n planar, and (d) p-i-n mesoscopic. Here, n, i, and p represent the n-type, intrinsic, and p-type, respectively. Reproduced with permission from Song et al., "Pathways toward high-performance perovskite solar cells: Review of recent advances in organometal halide perovskites for photovoltaic applications," J. Photonics Energy 6, 022001 (2016). Copyright 2016 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 
 FIG. 6 . 6 FIG. 6. A typical MoS 2 (a) exfoliation process of bulk with NMP solvent, (b) exfoliated SEM image (the inset is the exfoliated powders), (c) UV-absorption spectra in NMP and IPA, (d) exfoliated high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image, and (e) high-resolution TEM [inset: Fast Fourier Transformation (FFT)]. Adapted from Liang et al., "Improving stability of organometallic-halide perovskite solar cells using exfoliation two-dimensional molybdenum chalcogenides," npj 2D Mater. Appl. 4, 40 (2020). Copyright 2020 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 
 109 109 
 FIG. 7 .FIG. 8 . 78 FIG. 7. (a) A typical mechanical exfoliation process of MoS 2 . Optical images of MoS 2 exfoliated nanosheets on (b) a SiO 2 /Si substrate, (c) a sapphire substrate, (d) a plastic film substrate, and (e) CVD exfoliated MoS 2 on a SiO 2 /Si substrate. Adapted from Huang et al., "Universal mechanical exfoliation of large-area 2D crystals," Nat. Commun. 11, 2453 (2020). Copyright 2020 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 
 FIG. 9 . 9 FIG. 9. XRD spectra for bulk and exfoliated (a) MoS 2 and (b) WS 2 . Raman spectra for bulk and exfoliated (c) MoS 2 and (d) WS 2 TMDC materials. Reproduced with permission from Huang et al., ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9, 25323-25331 (2017). Copyright 2017 ACS Publisher. 
 FIG. 10 . 10 FIG. 10. (a) Current vs voltage curves and (b) Nyquist plot for PSCs with Co-Fe-MoSx nanocubes as back-contacts. Adapted from Xu et al., "Designing multifunctional Co and Fe co-doped MoS 2 nanocube electrodes for dye-sensitized solar cells, perovskite solar cells, and a supercapacitor," ACS Omega 6, 24931-24939 (2021). Copyright 2021 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 
 FIG. 12. (a) Composite formation process of WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs, (b) high resolution TEM for WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs, (c) XPS spectra of WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs, (d) XPS spectrum of WS 2 and WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs samples, (e) PL spectra of the WS 2 and WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs, and (f) normalized PL spectra of WS 2 and WS 2 /AgIn 5 S 8 QDs showing their decay time, respectively. Reproduced with permission from Sui et al., Chem. Eng. J. 455, 140728 (2023). Copyright 2023 Elsevier Publisher. 
 FIG. 13 . 13 FIG. 13. (a) Synthesis of phenylacetylene-Ag complex and (b) schematic synthesis process of MoS 2 /PAS nanocomposites. Adapted with permission from Dai et al., ChemSusChem 10, 2869-2874 (2017). Copyright 2017 John Wiley and Sons Publisher. 
 FIG. 14 . 14 FIG. 14. Effect of MoS 2 /PAS nanocomposite concentration in PEDOT:PSS blends on (a) J-V characteristics and (b) the stability of respective PSC devices. Adapted with permission from Dai et al., ChemSusChem 10, 2869-2874 (2017). Copyright 2017 John Wiley and Sons Publisher. 128   
 2 2 FIG. 15. (a) J-V characteristics for PSC devices with MoS 2 QDs, f-RGO, and MoS 2 /f-RGO as HTLs and without any dopant as a reference, (b) J-V curves for PSC devices with MoS 2 QDs, f-RGO, and MoS 2 /f-RGO at the interface between the spiro-OMeTAD HTL and MAPbI 3 absorber layer and without any dopant as a reference, (c) steadystate PL spectra for thin films after deposition of spiro-OMeTAD and MoS 2 QDs, f-RGO, and MoS 2 /f-RGO assimilated with spiro-OMeTAD, and (d) the incident PCE curves for various fabricated devices and the integrated current density curves (red). Reproduced with permission from Najafi et al., ACS Nano 12, 10736-10754 (2018). Copyright 2018 ACS Publisher. 
 FIG. 16 . 16 FIG. 16.A typical schematic process of glass/FTO/2H-TaS 2 nanosheets thin films formation using the microwave method. Adapted with permission from Afzali et al., J. Alloys Compd. 817, 152742 (2020). Copyright 2020 Elsevier Publisher. 
 FIG. 17 . 17 FIG. 17. (a) Schematic diagram for the device with WS 2 as an ETL material and evaluation of photovoltaic parameters for the reference device without WS 2 ETL and best device with WS 2 (WS50) as an ETL material. (b) PCE, (c) Voc, (d) Jsc, (e) FF, and (f) current density-voltage curves for both devices (with or without WS 2 ETL). Reproduced with permission from Malek et al., Sol. RRL 4, 2000260 (2020). Copyright 2020 John Wiley and Sons Publisher. 
 FIG. 18 . 18 FIG. 18. Schematic diagram of the fabricated PSC device with the configuration of FTO/MoSe 2 /CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 /PMMA/C 60 /Al-doped ZnO (AZO)/silver, and MoSe 2 as the HTL material. Reproduced with permission from Chang et al., Vacuum 178, 109441 (2020). Copyright 2020 Elsevier Publisher. 
 FIG. 19 . 19 FIG. 19. SEM images of (a) pristine and (b) WS 2 QDs modified perovskite films. Reproduced with permission from Li et al., J. Power Sources 518, 230766 (2022). Copyright 2022 Elsevier Publisher. 
 FIG. 20 . 20 FIG. 20. Typical PSC with MoS 2 additive in the absorber layer. (a) MAPbI 3 -based device and (b) CsMAFAPbIBr-based device. Adapted from Taurisano et al., "Inclusion of 2D transition metal dichalcogenides in perovskite inks and their influence on solar cell performance," Nanomaterials 11, 1706 (2021). Copyright 2021 Author(s), licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. 
 171  mitigated the interface current density-voltage (J-V) hysteresis loss and stability problems by inserting a 2D-MoS 2 interfacial layer between the PTAA HTL and the perovskite absorber [Fig.21(a)]. The modified PSC achieved a PCE of 18.54%, which was about a 23% performance improvement when compared to the unmodified device, with a PCE of about 15%. Notably, the introduction of the 2D-MoS 2 layer led to the reduction in the energy barrier between the cesium formamidinium methylammonium (CsFAMA) absorber layer (with a valence band maximum of -5.65 eV) and the PTAA [with the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) level of -5.1 eV] HTL materials as shown in Fig.21(b), thus ensuring fast charge transfer of holes to the gold back-contact. In addition, the interfacial layer 2D-MoS 2 facilitated proper band alignment between the absorber and the HTL materials, hence effective charge transport of holes to the gold back-contact while blocking the electrons.In another investigation, Zhou et al. 172  doped a lowtemperature processed TiO 2 ETL material with MoS 2 and WSe 2 QDs to improve its electrical conductivity at the interface. The asprepared TiO 2 /MoS 2 and TiO 2 /WSe 2 nanomaterials were used as an ETL in a hole transport-free PSC device with a carbon electrode. The best device with the dopants showed improved photovoltaic performance, i.e., PCE = 10.02%, Voc = 1.615 V, Jsc = 7.88 mA cm -2 , and FF = 78.8%, which was ascribed to the reduction in defects trap states and improved conductivity as a result of doping. In order to exploit the intriguing properties of TMDCs in PSCs more explicitly, Ray et al. 173  synthesized P3HT/MoS 2 nanohybrids and incorporated them as the HTL material. The performance of the P3HT/MoS 2 -based PSC devices was considerably augmented to over 40% (PCE = 7.2%) when compared to the device with only P3HT HTL. Moreover, when the device was kept in an ambient environment, the PCE of the device with P3HT/MoS 2 reduced by only 10%, while for the P3HT devices, it reduced by 20%, an indication that modification at the interface enhanced the stability of the PSC and, thus, no need for encapsulation. 
 FIG. 22 . 22 FIG. 22. Band structure of WS 2 nanomaterial. Reproduced with permission from S. Roy and P. Bermel, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 174, 370-379 (2018). Copyright 2018 Elsevier publisher. 
 FIG. 23. Band structures of (a) MoS 2 , (b) CsPbBr 3 , and (c) MoS 2 /CsPbBr 3 heterostructures. Reproduced with permission from Liao et al., J. Phys. Chem. Solids 135, 109060 (2019). Copyright 2019 Elsevier publisher. 
 FIG. 24 . 24 FIG. 24. Modeled PSC device. (a) Schematic diagram and (b) the band alignment diagram of various components. Reproduced with permission from Sobayel et al., Results Phys. 12, 1097-1103 (2019). Copyright 2019 Elsevier Publisher. 
 
 
 TABLE I . I Some selected numerically simulated TMDC-based PSC devices with SCAPS-1D computational software. Role of TMDC Device configuration in the device PCE (%) References FTO/WS 2 /La 2 NiMnO 6 /Cu 2 O/Au ETL 18.89 201 FTO/TiO 2 /CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 /MoS 2 /spiro-OMeTAD/Ag Interlayer 14.16 202 ITO/WS 2 /FASnI 3 /Cd 0.5 Zn 0.5 S/Al ETL 23.10 58 ITO/WS 2 /CH 3 NH 3 SnI3/P3HT/Au ETL 33.46 203 FTO/MoS 2 /MAPI/spiro-OMeTAD/Au ETL 13.15 204 FTO/MoSe 2 /MAPI/spiro-OMeTAD/Au ETL 8.09 204 Carbon/MoS 2 /Cs 2 TiI 6 /TiO 2 /FTO/glass HTL 12.68 205 FTO/TiO 2 /CH 3 NH 3 Pbl 3 /MoS 2 /spiro-OMeTAD/Au Interlayer 13.10 206 Glass/FTO/ZnO/Cs 2 SnI 6 /MoS 2 /Ni HTL 18.00 4 FTO/WS 2 /CH 3 NH 3 SnI 3 /CuSCN/Au ETL 19.84 207 
			 © Author(s) 2024
Paper #: 13791_2

Sign In Sign In The Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org Explore AIP Publishing and our portfolio by logging into your account profile. Access published articles, information about our partnerships, individual publications, and submit your next manuscript.
Searching the Platform From the homepage you can conduct a basic, advanced, or citation search across our content platform. 
 Search Results When search results appear, you can: • Filter by format, topic, subject, or journal   In the left-hand column, you can view the cover image, jump to a specific type of article, or view articles by topic. 
 Accessing an Article Institutional customers access content via registered IP ranges. If you try to view content from an unauthorized IP address, you will be asked to select your method of access as shown here. If you do not have access through your institution, you have the option to log in as an individual subscriber, purchase standard PPV, or view the article via Open Athens or Shibboleth. 
 Sign In 
 Viewing an Article IP authenticated users can access articles without creating a profile. However to benefit from all tools available we encourage users to create a profile. From an article, users can: • Save searches • Sign up for RSS feeds • View in a split screen • Download an article as a PDF • Sign up for journal alerts • View author affiliations and ORCID, where provided • View and download article citations • Add to your "favorites" • "Share" the article through social media and Reddit • View article metrics 
 • Access related articles Most articles are accessible as HTML or PDF. If only one format is available, the navigation bar will be updated to reflect the version offered. If available, supplementary data will be displayed in the left navigation. 
 Article Icons The blue circle icons next to certain article titles indicate if it is a: • Featured Article • Editor's Pick • Scilight A Scilight, a science highlight, is a professional summary of significant developments in a particular field of research. The articles that are chosen for Scilight are recommended by the research-active editors of AIP Publishing's journals. 
 Sign In 
 Article Figures & Split Screen Option Select "views" to toggle between "figures & tables" and "article contents". Article "figures & tables" can be downloaded directly as a PowerPoint presentation with citations or as a High-res image. The newly added split screen feature offers readers a way to read an article and view the figures, references, and related content alongside each other. 
 Article Metrics & Citations When available, article metrics can be viewed by selecting "View Metrics" in the upper right-corner of the page. As articles receive "views" and "citations" they will be calculated and updated daily. (Note: article metrics are cumulative from 12/13/2016 onwards). 
 Sign In Sign In 
 Sign In Article citations can be viewed by selecting "Web of Science" or "Crossref" 
 Related Content A list of related content is found to the right of the article under "Related Content". 
 Sharing an Article Click on the share button to share an article via Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or LinkedIn. 
 Sign In Sign In 10 Navigating Books Our books are fully integrated with our journals and are designed to help researchers at every stage of their career to discover new developments, investigate new techniques, and explore key concepts in emerging areas of science. 
 Select the book type to view titles within each category Accessing the Books Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org/books Browse: Access our books by publication date, type, or author 
 Book Title Page The title page offers an easy to navigate overview with a description, short links to the book information, access options, and metrics. 
 Buy this Book: purchase a PDF version of this book Abstract: read the book abstract 
 PDF: download individual book chapters Share, Tools, Cite: share via social media or Reddit, and download citation information. Buy Print: offers individual an option to purchase a personal softcover copy of this book myBook: offers readers at institutions with an active license an exclusive option to purchase a discounted B&W copy • Publishers: Learn about AIP Publishing and our publishing partners • Publications: View our journals, Physics Today magazine, conference proceedings and our books • Special Topics: Access the latest special topics across our publications • Authors: View author resources and learn about publishing • Librarians: View librarian resources and learn about access options • About: Learn about our mission Most Recent: View some of the most recently published articles across our journal portfolio Submit your article: Find the right journal to share your latest discovery worldwide Sign up for Alerts: register for journal and topic alerts to be delivered right to your inbox • Search box: Search the platform by keyword, phrase, DOI, ISBN, author name, etc. • Magnifying glass: Click to run your search • Advanced search: simultaneously search by several parameters to tailor your results • Citation search: Search by journal, volume and page number Sign In Basic Search: search the platform by a specific phrase or term Advanced Search: the search options below will appear, allowing you to utilize more than one search term or phrase, and apply filters to your search. 
 Article Search by Citation from Journal HomepageFrom the top of the journal homepage, you can search by citation. For the most accurate results, fill in the journal name, volume and page number. 
 
 • Sort by relevance or publication date Sign In Sign In Citation Search: select the journal name and include the volume and page number. 
 After clicking on "Browse" you are directed to the current issue and can navigate to previously published issues. Here you can view an article's abstract or the article in full. Browse: Viewing the Latest Issue From the navigation bar you can access: • Home: navigate to journal homepage by clicking here • Browse: view the latest issue • Collections: view special issues, press releases, tutorials, and more Learn about the journal and the editorial board, and access the current issue • For Authors: information on preparing and submitting a manuscript • About: learn about the journal, its scope, editorial board and development team, and more. Submit your article Sign up for journal alerts Select articles of interest View some of the most recently published articles Access "most read" articles Sign In
