Paper #: 13753_1


Supplementary table I Symbol Variation of surface temperature with time for o-CB (13 mg mL -1 ), Me-4PACZ (13 mg mL -1 ), PTAA (13 mg mL -1 ), and PEDOT:PSS (13 mg mL -1 ) from 100 â„ƒ to 25 â„ƒ.      Cooling rate: PEDOT:PSSrate = 0.341 â„ƒ/s; PTAArate = 0.3125 â„ƒ/s ; Me-4PACZrate = 0.31 â„ƒ/s; o-CBrate = 0.5 â„ƒ/s. of devices with o-CB treatment increased to 1.478 W m -1 k -1 , 1.435 W m -1 k -1 , and 1.362 W m -1 k -1 at 25 â„ƒ, 55 â„ƒ, and 85 â„ƒ.The pristine film after 2000s irradiation showed strong temperature concentration, and the statistics showed that the temperature was mostly concentrated in the middle part of ITO and unevenly distributed. 
 85â„ƒ It can be seen that the introduction of o-CB into the wide-bandgap perovskite films can suppress I-Br separation. 
			 , and 1.355 W m -1 k -1 at 
			 â„ƒ, 55 â„ƒ, and 85 â„ƒ. In contrast, the thermal conductivities 
			 h. In comparison, the efficiency of the pristine devices decreased to 65 % of the original efficiency after 144 h.
Paper #: 13753_2

Sustainable thermal regulation improves stability and efficiency in all-perovskite tandem solar cells 
 REVIEWER COMMENTS Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): Improving the thermal and operafion stability of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells is crifical for the commercializafion of all-perovskite tandem solar cells. This manuscript takes the heat transfer model as the starfing points, providing us a new perspecfive to evaluate the performance and applicafion of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells. The authors discovered the regulafion of heat dissipafion and charge transfer by introducing o-CB into Pb-Sn perovskite precursor solufion. Through the o-CB treatment, the occurrence of localized areas with heat accumulafion (hotspots) was efficiently suppressed, resulfing in improved long-term thermal stability. Mixed Pb-Sn sub-cells retained 80% of its inifial PCE after 1,080 h aging at 85 oC. The o-CB treatment also reduced interface recombinafion. They achieved maximal in-lab measured PCEs of 23.44% and 27.2% for mixed Pb-Sn single juncfion and all-perovskite tandem solar cells. The tandem remained at 87% of its inifial PCE after 704 h of confinuous operafion under illuminafion. However, there are several crucial scienfific problems before considering its suitubility for publicafion in Nat Comm, especially in heat transfer model and performance measurement of tandem cells. Meanwhile, there is a lack of convincing characterizafion to demonstrate the effects of this addifive. The detailed comments are as follows: 1. In Fig.  2c  and 2d , perovskite films with o-CB show a faster cooling and slower heafing up. How can we explain that perovskite films with o-CB exhibit a thermal diode-like effect? Moreover, the schemafic diagram in Fig.  1b  shows that o-CB is deposited at the boftom of the perovskite film, which can be understood as an ultra-thin conductor in series between PEDOT: PSS and perovskite, so how does such a small amount of materials affect the thermal conducfivity change of the enfire device? The authors need to show the thermal conducfivity change of the whole device to analyze this problem, not the change of the sole perovskite film. 2. In Fig.  2g , the o-CB perovskite films show befter thermal conducfivity. So, if the target devices are placed into a hot environment (i.e., outdoor in summer), would the high temperature in the environment also be introduced into the target devices faster, resulfing in poorer stability? 3. If mixed Pb-Sn perovskite precursor solufion is 500 Î¼L in the methods of this paper, we get the concentrafion is 2.4 M. However, SEM images in Fig.  3b  and 3e exhibit an unreasonable thickness (~500 nm) for both the prisfine and the o-CB. At this absorber-layer thickness, the EQE of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells at the long-wavelength would not be higher than 65% (hftps://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-12513-x), let alone 80% obtained in Fig.  4c . 4. What is the substrate in TRPL shown in Supplementary Fig.  15 , ITO/PEDOT: PSS or pure glass? It seems that the TRPL of the control films show an abnormal downward slope over a quite short period of fime (<50 ns), while the o-CB films do not. In my opinion, a sudden change in early fime could be down to charge transfer rather than recombinafion, thus the substrates for these two samples are crifical. The authors need to explain it and further discuss the results of TRPL by relevant experimental or mathemafical methods. 5. In Fig.  4c , the EQE curves of the control and o-CB devices show different inifial EQE values. Does this mean that the improvement of Jsc comes from the anfi-reflecfion layer? 6. In Fig.  4e , the o-CB and control devices demonstrate 1080 h and 80 h for T80 at 85 oC, respecfively, which is similar or ever inferior compared with previous report also from the authors group (BBMS as addifive, 2660 h of T98 at 65 oC). Why does not this work confinue previous recipe, using BBMS as the control device and presenfing befter device thermal stability? 7. In all-perovskite tandem solar cells (Table  1 ), the o-CB tandem device shows a Voc of 2.16 V. However, LBG and WBG device exhibits a Voc of 0.88 V and 1.26 V, respecfively. Could the authors further discuss how to minimize the Voc loss of the all-perovskite tandem solar cells? By the way, the o-CB tandem devices show a Jsc of 15.6 mA cm-2, which are not agreement with the EQE results shown in Fig.  4h . 8. The manuscript stated "this approach was also verified by the significantly improved performance and thermal stability of PSCs based on pure lead perovskite after introducing o-CB" (line 218), and "the simulafion results in Fig.  3g  show that o-CB was adsorbed at the center of the four iodine atoms on the perovskite surface"(line 163). So, could o-CB be ufilized in WBG sub-cells to inhibit I-Br segregafion and achieve befter operafion stability for all-perovskite tandem solar cells? 9. The J-V characterizafion of tandem solar cells is not rigorous. Please refer to the IEC standards on how to correctly measurement the JV and EQE of tandem solar cells. An independent cerfificafion will be highly appreciated. 
 " In comparison to the control film which exhibited a localized area of heat accumulafion (hotspot), the o-CB treated film showed improved heat dissipafion and a more uniform temperature distribufion." Can the authors explain why the control film exhibits thermal accumulafion in the middle? 3. "A heat dissipafion model (Fig.  2a ) with an inifial temperature of 25Â°C and a size of 0.17 cm Ã— 0.15 cm Ã— 0.016 cm was established (see detailed model informafion 88 in the supplementary materials)." The authors' choice of 1.5 s instead of 0 s as a reference point should be clarified. It would be helpful if the authors could explain the rafionale behind this selecfion. Addifionally, it would be interesfing to know if the inclusion of 1.5 s has any impact on the overall changes observed in the study. 4. The introducfion of o-CB leads to significant reducfion of the JV curve hysteresis of devices. The authors should discuss more to further elaborate on this. 5. The authors are suggested to provide more explanafions on the statement of "The improved film quality also contributed to reduced Sn oxidafion". 6. The authors provide the operafional stability of the tandem cells. It is recommended that the authors also analyze and discuss why the thermal stability of the tandem cells gets improved.
Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): The paper by Tan et al. aims to improve the stability of PbSn-based perovskite with a low bandgap of 1.25 eV, which are currently used for all-perovskite tandem cells, yet sfill face crifical challenges with regard to their stability. This is generally understood to be due to the oxidafion of Sn2+ to Sn4+. However, the authors idenfify that thermal conducfivity plays a major role in their stability as insufficient thermal transfer can lead to heat accumulafion within the absorber layer that accelerates thermal degradafion. To mifigate heat accumulafion, the authors incorporated carboranes into perovskite due to their heat transfer capability. Finally, high-performance tandem cells with efficiencies over 27% are demonstrated with enhanced stability under maximum power point tracking. The paper is well-wriften and structured and provides valuable insights into fimely research quesfions. It also demonstrates highly efficient tandem cells. As such the paper may be acceptable for Nature Communicafions, however, further clarificafions are necessary before the paper can be considered again. While the argument of improved heat transfer is well presented with simulafions and experiments, I am a bit surprised about the huge impact of a 1 mg/mL solufion addifive on the heat dynamics. First of all, an excepfional heat transfer ability is claimed in Figure  S1 . However, this claim lacks context, what is excepfional? To me the difference between PEDOT:PSS and o-CB in Figure  S1  appears to be rather small. Please explain and provide a rafionale for how this can significantly alter the temperature of the cell (e.g. as shown in Figure  2h ). Does Figure  2h  hold true for longer illuminafion, i.e. for operafional condifions? Moreover, while the heat transfer ability has likely an impact on the stability, it is not really proven that this is the main factor for improved device stability. Can the authors prove, that a few degree differences in the temperature of the cell, let's say 4-5 Â°C (as shown in Figure  2h ) can make such a big difference in the stability? Other smaller points to consider for the authors. How thick were the Films in Figure  S1 ? Related to this how thick is the o-CB layer in the device (I guess this can be inferred from Fig.  S2 )? In Figures  1e  and f , SEM images are provided of annealed samples at 85 degrees, please provide in addifion original SEM images, this would strengthen the argument. Regarding Figure  2c  and d , please provide in the capfion or image the device structure (currently only provided in the main text). Regarding the statement "We then used T-type thermocouples to conduct real-fime temperature monitor to invesfigate the photothermal response of each layer in PSCs" how can this work to detect the temperature of nm thick films? Please explain. Regarding the importance of electron transfer to o-CB, the authors may find a recent study interesfing that demonstrated o-CB as an interfacial layer at the n-tpye interface which improved the electron transfer as well (hftps://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-34203-x). Regarding the energy levels shown in Figure  S13 , the electron affinity of C60 is likely not at 4.5 eV, this would cause too much recombinafion losses. Related to this, the argument that the energy level offset between PEDOT:PSS and the perovskite gets smaller when the energy level of the perovskite with the o-CB shift upwards, this argument would also imply that the C60 energy offset gets larger (with current energy levels), please reconsider this statement. This manuscript presents a strategy of introducing ortho-carborane (o-CB) to improve both efficiency and stability of mixed Sn-Pb perovskite solar cells and all-perovskite tandem solar cells. The incorporafion of o-CB effecfively transfers heat and lowers the surface temperature of perovskite film by around 5 Â°C under 1 sun illuminafion. As a result, the mixed Sn-Pb perovskite solar cell with o-CB treatment exhibits improved thermal stability, with 80% of its inifial efficiency kept after aging at 85 Â°C for 1080 hours. Addifionally, the introducfion of o-CB improves the film quality and facilitates the charge transfer, enabling the remarkable efficiencies of 23.44% and 27.2% for mixed Sn-Pb cells and allperovskite tandem cells, respecfively. This work is of great interest and significance to the community of perovskite materials and solar cells, especially in mixed Sn-Pb cells and all-perovskite tandem cells, represenfing a significant advance. Therefore, I would recommend publicafion of this work after addressing the following minor concerns issues/comments. 1. Could the authors explain why they considered to use the compound of carboranes? Compared to other compounds, ortho-carbon borane has a higher specific heat capacity, which is beneficial for improving stability. In terms of device performance, have the other two compounds been tried, and what were the possible results? 
 Responses to reviewer comments We thank the reviewers for their advice, which has helped us to improve the quality of the work. Below are responses to reviewers' questions. Author actions in response are in blue font below. Changes to the manuscript have been made in the tracking mode. Response: We returned to the lab and could provide a thermal conductivity study of the complete devices (Fig.  R1 ). The thermal conductivities of the control devices were 1.443 W m -1 k -1 , 1.42 W m -1 k -1 , and 1.355 W m -1 k -1 at 25 â„ƒ, 55 â„ƒ, and 85 â„ƒ. In contrast, the thermal conductivities of devices after o-CB treatment increased to 1.478 W m -1 k -1 , 1.435 W m -1 k -1 , and 1.362 W m -1 k -1 at 25 â„ƒ, 55 â„ƒ, and 85 â„ƒ. The improvement in thermal conductivity after o-CB treatment is beneficial for the heat dissipation in whole devices. Fig.  R1  has been added as Supplementary Fig.  4  to the revised Supporting Information. 2. In Fig.  2g , the o-CB perovskite films show better thermal conductivity. So, if the target devices are placed into a hot environment (i.e., outdoor in summer), would the high temperature in the environment also be introduced into the target devices faster, resulting poorer stability? Response: The high temperature in the environment will be introduced into ) Temperature (â„ƒ) 0 mg/mL 1 mg/mL the target device faster because of the better thermal conductivity of o-CB, however, this will not cause poor stability. After putting solar cells into a hot environment, heat exchange happens, and shortly following will be the reaching of a thermal equilibrium state. Thus, it is the temperature when reaching thermal equilibrium that decides the stability, rather than the temperature rising rate. For a control device, the heat will accumulate at the interface after the device absorbs light, and more energy will be accumulated at the buried interface between the hole transport layer and the perovskite layer. In a target solar cell, the device with the introduction of o-CB can transfer heat more quickly, thus reducing heat accumulation and improving the stability of the device. 3. If mixed Pb-Sn perovskite precursor solution is 500 Î¼L in the methods of this paper, we get the concentration is 2.4 M. However, SEM images in Fig.  3b  and 3e exhibit an unreasonable thickness (~500 nm) for both the pristine and the o-CB. At this absorber-layer thickness, the EQE of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells at the long-wavelength would not be higher than 65% ( https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-12513-x ), let alone 80% obtained in Fig.  4c . Response: Thanks for reviewing our manuscript carefully. We returned to the lab and re-measured the SEM (Fig.  R2 ). The control samples exhibit an average thickness of 966 nm, with a standard deviation of Â±33 nm, and the target samples display an average thickness of 976 nm, with a standard deviation of Â±15 nm. We have updated the images and the thickness values in the revised manuscript. The thin films reported in our original manuscript are likely attributed to sample drift during the SEM measurements, which unintentionally caused compression of the measured images. 4. What is the substrate in TRPL shown in Supplementary Fig.  15 , ITO/PEDOT: PSS or pure glass? It seems that the TRPL of the control films show an abnormal downward slope over a quite short period of time (<50 ns), while the o-CB films do not. In my opinion, a sudden change in early time could be down to charge transfer rather than recombination, thus the substrates for these two samples are critical. The authors need to explain it and further discuss the results of TRPL by relevant experimental or mathematical methods. Response: Thank you for reviewing our manuscript carefully. The substrate used for TRPL measurements is glass. Since the charge transport layer is absent, we speculate the downward slope over a quite short time should be attributed to the bulk and surface non-radiative recombination in the perovskite thin films (10.1002/aenm.202003489). 5. In Fig.  4c , the EQE curves of the control and o-CB devices show different initial EQE values. Does this mean that the improvement of Jsc comes from the anti-reflection layer? Response: We have not used any anti-reflection layer for our solar cells. We returned to the lab and fabricated more batches of solar cells to confirm the EQE characteristic. We found that although all the ITO glasses have the same sheet resistance, ITO glasses from different vendors provided us with different EQE characteristics, especially at the short wavelength range. This is likely caused by the difference in the quality of ITO from different vendors. We now used the same ITO glasses for solar cells reported in our manuscript, and the new J-V and EQE data (Fig.  R3 ) have been updated in the revised manuscript. These results are in good agreement with those reported originally. 6. In Fig.  4e , the o-CB and control devices demonstrate 1080 h and 80 h for T80 at 85 â„ƒ, respectively, which is similar or ever inferior compared with previous report also from the authors group (BBMS as additive, 2660 h of T 98 at 65 o C). Why does not this work continue previous recipe, using BBMS as the control device and presenting better device thermal stability? Response: Thank you for the reviewer's attention to our previous work (DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.2c02576). The introduction of BBMS indeed improves the stability of the devices. As reported in our previous work, there was almost no efficiency decay when the devices were heated at 65Â°C for 2660 hours. However, when the heating temperature increased to 85Â°C, the stability significantly decreased for the device with BBMS. We investigated the thermal stability of the devices with BBMS at 85Â°C, but the results were not ideal as shown in Fig.  R4 . Although the devices with BBMS performed better than the control device under 85Â°C, the efficiency decayed to 50% of its initial efficiency after 1000 hours. We speculate that the accelerated decay is attributed to the instability of the BBMS at high temperatures. In this work, we conducted more stringent tests at 85Â°C to investigate the influence of o-CB on the stability of the devices without using the BBMS recipe. 7. In all-perovskite tandem solar cells (Table  1 ), the o-CB tandem device shows a V OC of 2.16 V. However, LBG and WBG device exhibits a V OC of 0.88 V and 1.26 V, respectively. Could the authors further discuss how to minimize the V OC loss of the all-perovskite tandem solar cells? In this work, we specifically paid attention to the optimization of the interconnection layer. We meticulously optimized both the ALD-SnO 2 thickness and the ALD annealing temperature. Our findings indicate that depositing 20 nm SnO 2 at a temperature of 85Â°C allows us to assemble tandem solar cells with negligible V OC loss. The ALD annealing temperature has been added to the Method section in the revised manuscript. By the way, the o-CB tandem devices show a J SC of 15.6 mA cm-2, which are not agreement with the EQE results shown in Fig.  4h . Response: Thank you for reviewing the manuscript carefully. We checked that the integrated current density is 15.2 mA cm -2 , which should fall within a reasonable margin of error compared to the 15.6 mA cm -2 obtained from the device. 8. The manuscript stated "this approach was also verified by the significantly improved performance and thermal stability of PSCs based on pure lead perovskite after introducing o-CB" (line 218), and "the simulation results in Fig.  3g  show that o-CB was adsorbed at the center of the four iodine atoms on the perovskite surface"(line 163). So, could o-CB be utilized in WBG sub-cells to inhibit I-Br segregation and achieve better operation stability for all-perovskite tandem solar cells? Response: In the original manuscript, we did not investigate the influence of o-CB on wide-bandgap sub-cells, but rather studied its effect on normal-  9. The J-V characterization of tandem solar cells is not rigorous. Please refer to the IEC standards on how to correctly measurement the JV and EQE of tandem solar cells. Response: Thank you for your suggestion. We have carefully read the IEC standards on how to correctly measure the J-V and EQE of tandem solar cells, and our rather outdated testing equipment may have resulted in less rigorous curves. An independent certification will be highly appreciated. Response: We appreciate the suggestion from the reviewer. However, as our research primarily centers on exploring novel materials for thermal regulation to improve solar cell stability, an independent efficiency Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): The paper by Tan et al. aims to improve the stability of PbSn-based perovskite with a low bandgap of 1.25 eV, which are currently used for allperovskite tandem cells, yet still face critical challenges with regard to their stability. This is generally understood to be due to the oxidation of Sn2+ to Sn4+. However, the authors identify that thermal conductivity plays a major role in their stability as insufficient thermal transfer can lead to heat accumulation within the absorber layer that accelerates thermal degradation. To mitigate heat accumulation, the authors incorporated carboranes into perovskite due to their heat transfer capability. Finally, high-performance tandem cells with efficiencies over 27% are demonstrated with enhanced stability under maximum power point tracking. The paper is well-written and structured and provides valuable insights into timely research questions. It also demonstrates highly efficient tandem cells. As such the paper may be acceptable for Nature Communications, however, further clarifications are necessary before the paper can be considered again. While the argument of improved heat transfer is well presented with simulations and experiments, I am a bit surprised about the huge impact of a 1 mg/mL solution additive on the heat dynamics. Response: We thank the reviewer for the careful evaluation of the manuscript. We fully understand the concern raised by the reviewer. We speculate that there are two main reasons for this: 1) Heat accumulation at the interface between the hole transport layer and the perovskite layer can be mitigated by o-CB, which can facilitate faster heat transfer and reduce the temperature at the buried interface. There are other papers reporting that even smaller amounts of additives can significantly transfer heat (0.5 mg/mL, DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202308036; 0.1 mg/mL, DOI: 10.1002/smll.202207092). 2) The o-CB serves as a template growth agent for perovskite grains, regulating the ordered crystallization of perovskites. The resulting grain boundaries, formed by the interconnection of grains through electron and hole transport layers, serve as channels for heat dissipation, facilitating thermal transfer. First of all, an exceptional heat transfer ability is claimed in Figure  S1 . However, this claim lacks context, what is exceptional? Response: Thank you for reviewing our manuscript carefully. We apologize for the omission of Fig.  1a  in the original manuscript. Fig.  1a  should be included at the end of this sentence "due to its exceptional heat transfer ability and chemical stability in the series (Supplementary Fig.  1 )". This 'exceptional' illustrates the comparison between o-carborane and the other two types of carboranes. o-carborane exhibits a lower thermal hysteresis coefficient compared to meta-carborane and para-carborane. A smaller thermal hysteresis indicates better heat dissipation. Additionally, we can observe in Figure  S1  that o-carborane has a faster cooling rate compared to the hole transport material (PEDOT:PSS), indicating its superior heat transfer capability. To me the difference between PEDOT:PSS and o-CB in Figure  S1  appears to be rather small. Please explain and provide a rationale for how this can significantly alter the temperature of the cell (e.g. as shown in Figure  2h ). Response: Figure  2h  is applicable for longer durations of illumination. From Figure  2e , it can be inferred that the temperature of each layer in the device stabilizes after 1000 s of illumination. Moreover, while the heat transfer ability has likely an impact on the stability, it is not really proven that this is the main factor for improved device stability. Can the authors prove, that a few degree differences in the temperature of the cell, let's say 4-5 Â°C (as shown in Figure  2h ) can make such a big difference in the stability? Response: The enhanced thermal stability stems from the following reasons: (1) the improved thermal conductivity of o-CB, which suppresses thermal accumulation; (2) the enhanced contact between perovskite and HTL and (3) a more appropriate band alignment at the buried interface, thereby reducing non-radiative recombination and the generation of phonons (heat). These points have been detailed in the manuscript, collectively contributing to the lowered operating temperature of the solar cells. In addition, the introduction of o-carborane also improves the crystallization of perovskites, which also contributes to enhanced thermal stability. All these factors together contribute to the enhanced thermal stability. Other smaller points to consider for the authors. How thick were the Films in Figure  S1 ? Related to this how thick is the o-CB layer in the device (I guess this can be inferred from Fig.  S2 )? Response: We prepared a layer of o-CB (1 mg/mL) thin film on glass and conducted atomic force microscope measurements, estimating its thickness to be 5.5 nm (Fig.  R6a ). The thickness of PEDOT:PSS was estimated to be 56 nm (Fig.  R6b ). As shown in Supplementary Figure  S2 , o-CB permeates throughout the whole perovskite film but is primarily distributed at the interface between the perovskite and the PEDOT:PSS. Based on this observation, we speculate that the thickness of o-CB in the device is approximately several tens of nanometers. In Figures  1e  and f , SEM images are provided of annealed samples at 85 degrees, please provide in addition original SEM images, this would strengthen the argument. Response: Thank you for reviewing our manuscript carefully. We have included the SEM images (Fig.  R7 ) taken before annealing and added them to the supporting information (Supplementary Fig.  3 ). Regarding Figure  2c  and d , please provide in the caption or image the device structure (currently only provided in the main text). Response: Thank you for reviewing our manuscript carefully. We have supplemented the devices' structure in the caption in the revised manuscript. Regarding the statement "We then used T-type thermocouples to conduct real-time temperature monitor to investigate the photothermal response of each layer in PSCs" how can this work to detect the temperature of nm thick films? Please explain. Response: Thanks for the reviewer's question. We utilized the following approach to monitor the temperature of each film layer: a temperature sensor was attached to the backside of the ITO layer, adhering it to the backside to prevent any damage to the film caused by the adhesive. The Regarding the energy levels shown in Figure  S13 , the electron affinity of C 60 is likely not at 4.5 eV, this would cause too much recombination losses. Related to this, the argument that the energy level offset between PEDOT:PSS and the perovskite gets smaller when the energy level of the perovskite with the o-CB shift upwards, this argument would also imply that the C 60 energy offset gets larger (with current energy levels), please reconsider this statement. Response: Thank you for reviewing our manuscript carefully and pointing out our mistake. We did not thoroughly investigate the references and provided incorrect information in the original manuscript. We sincerely apologize for this careless. After careful literature investigation, we found that the electron affinity of C 60 is 3.9 eV, and its bandgap is 2 eV. We remade the energy level scheme as shown below in Fig.  R8 . We also replaced the old one with Fig.  R8  (supplementary Fig.  15  in supporting information). Response: Thanks for the reviewer's comments. Aiming to improve the thermal stability of devices through thermal management, we have been seeking materials with high thermal conductivity and specific heat capacity. Carboranes are a class of spherical molecules with delocalized Ï€-orbitals, allowing electrons to move freely, and spread out over a larger region within the materials. The characteristic of electron delocalization enables them to improve thermal conductivity and achieve efficient carrier transport, which can both transfer heat and improve charge transport. It was expected to achieve stable and efficient all-perovskite tandem solar cells. Compared to other compounds, ortho-carbon borane has a higher specific heat capacity, which is beneficial for improving stability. In terms of device performance, have the other two compounds been tried, and what were the possible results? Response: We have conducted I-V measurements of devices with different carboranes, and the results are shown in Fig.  R9 . We can see that devices using meta-carborane and para-carborane exhibit slightly inferior performance compared to devices using ortho-carborane. Response: Thank you for your comments. The temperature (T(x)) at various locations on the perovskite film can be calculated using Eq. 1 (DOI: 10.1016/j.mssp.2015.09.029). ð‘‡(ð‘¥) = ð‘‡ ð‘ ð‘¢ð‘ + ðœƒ ðœ† 2 (1 - ð‘ ð‘–ð‘›â„Žðœ†ð‘¥+ð‘ ð‘–ð‘›â„Žðœ†(1-ð‘¥) sinh ðœ†ð‘™ (1) The uniform substrate temperature (T sub ) is assumed in case the temperature is constant for all positions. In this equation, Î¸ is constant with position but depends on the temperature. Î» is related to the thermal conductivity and the thickness of the perovskite layer. L is the distance from the edge to the center of the film. Through calculations, the temperature is higher at the center of the film and reduces to the lower values at the edges. From the equation above, we can see that the temperature distribution of the perovskite film depends on several factors, such as the temperature of the substrate, the thermal conductivity of the perovskite film, the thickness of the perovskite film, and so on. 3. "A heat dissipation model (Fig.  2a ) with an initial temperature of 25Â°C and a size of 0.17 cm Ã— 0.15 cm Ã— 0.  The authors have addressed my comments in detail and added some new data including the device performance and stability, but I sfill have some crucial concerns about the mechanism and effects of the heat transfer model. The major concerns are listed as follows: 1. The response of comment #1 sfill does not explain that the o-CB device can achieve befter heat dissipafion in the case of inserfing a layer of material and introducing addifional thermal resistance. This seems to be contradictory in thermal physics, so please give a clearer mechanism and supporfing references, and the main text should also focus on this part. 2. The thermal conducfivity of the device shown in Fig.  R1  shows that at higher ambient temperatures, the thermal conducfivity difference between the device with or without o-CB is gradually reduced. For me the thermal conducfivity of the control and target devices at 85 oC can be considered almost no difference. In this case, does the target device really exhibit a lower thermal equilibrium temperature than the control device? If does, it is befter to give crifical experimental or calculated data, and further clarify whether the temperature difference caused by thermal conducfivity is directly related to stability. And if not, does it mean that the equilibrium temperature of the device is determined by the external ambient temperature if the ambient temperature is high enough? 3. The authors menfioned "This allows electrons to move freely, facilitafing heat transfer in the enfire device" in response 1. The behavior of the electron should be reflected in the TRPL, but the o-CB films seem to be unable to see anything, while the control films show an abnormal charge behavior, which is unreasonable. In addifion, the perovskite film on the glass menfioned in the reference (10.1002/aenm.202003489) does not exhibit a sudden decline in a short period of fime, but a slow decay. Unless the film quality is extremely poor, the rapid decline of the TRPL curve must be aftributed to the extracfion behavior based on the transporfing layer or electrode. So, the TRPL results need to be further analyze in the case of the two substrates being the same, provided with stafisfical data or the differenfial lifefime by mathemafical calculafion. The authors have addressed my comments in detail and added some new data including the device performance and stability, but I still have some crucial concerns about the mechanism and effects of the heat transfer model. The major concerns are listed as follows: 1. The response of comment #1 still does not explain that the o-CB device can achieve better heat dissipation in the case of inserting a layer of material and introducing additional thermal resistance. This seems to be contradictory in thermal physics, so please give a clearer mechanism and supporting references, and the main text should also focus on this part. Response: We apologize for confusing the reviewer with our unclear explanation in the text. Through SIMS measurements, it is found that o-CB is distributed in a gradient within the perovskite film, decreasing gradually from the bottom buried interface upwards. It is distributed as an additive within the perovskite, not as a separate layer sandwiched between the hole transport layer and the perovskite layer. However, since o-CB shows high thermal conductivity, the introduction of o-CB reduces the overall thermal resistance (R) and increases the thermal transmissivity (K) of the device, as shown in Table  R1 . We can see that after the introduction of o-CB, the device's thermal resistance at 25Â°C, 55Â°C, and 85Â°C is lower than that of the control device at each temperature, while the thermal transmissivity is higher than that of the control device at each temperature, thus achieving better heat dissipation. Table  R1 . The thermal resistance (R) and thermal transmissivity (K) of devices w/ and More discussion was added in the revised manuscript: w/o o-CB. Control R (â„ƒ/W) K (W/mk) With o-CB R (â„ƒ/W) K (W/mk) 25â„ƒ "In addition, we conducted tests on the thermal resistance and thermal transmissivity of the entire device, which provide insights into the device's heat conduction capacity. We can see from Supplementary Table  2  that after the introduction of o-CB, the device's thermal resistance at 25Â°C, 55Â°C, and 85Â°C is lower than that of the control device at each temperature, while the thermal transmissivity is higher than that of the control device at each temperature, thus achieving better heat dissipation." 2. The thermal conductivity of the device shown in Fig.  R1  shows that at higher ambient temperatures, the thermal conductivity difference between the device with or without o-CB is gradually reduced. For me the thermal conductivity of the control and target devices at 85 o C can be considered almost no difference. In this case, does the target device really exhibit a lower thermal equilibrium temperature than the control device? If does, it is better to give critical experimental or calculated data, and further clarify whether the temperature difference caused by thermal conductivity is directly related to stability. And if not, does it mean that the equilibrium temperature of the device is determined by the external ambient temperature if the ambient temperature is high enough? Response: Thank the reviewer for the careful review of our manuscript. The test results of the thermal conductivity of the devices demonstrated that as the temperature increased, the difference in thermal conductivity between the devices with o-CB and the control devices gradually decreased. The thermal equilibrium temperature not only depends on the thermal conductivity but also on the heat generation rate and heat dissipation rate. We speculate that the introduction of o-CB will lower the device's thermal equilibrium temperature. To confirm this hypothesis, we placed the control device and the device with o-CB on a hot plate at 85 â„ƒ and tested the temperature changes of the device using an infrared camera. The temperature changes of the devices over time are shown in Fig.  R1 . We can see that as time progresses, the temperature of both devices increases, but the temperature of the control device increases at a faster rate. After 2000 seconds, the thermal equilibrium temperature of the control device is noticeably higher than that of the device with o-CB. Higher thermal conductivity is beneficial for heat transfer and thus enhances the stability of the device.  Regarding Supplementary Figure  1 ., I am still confused, the heat transfer by conduction should dependent inversely on the thickness of the material, and also the mass of the material plays a role. I think the authors need to consider these points and make a fair comparison between PEDOT:PSS and o-CB (e.g. same thickness or mass?). Similarly, regarding the point that o-CB was chosen due to its exceptional thermal hysteresis, I think it would be more appropriate to compare this property to a few other HTLs used for perovskite solar cells, not only with 2 other carboranes. Regarding "It can be observed from Figure  S1  that the cooling rate of o-carborane is nearly twice as fast as that of PEDOT:PSS." please specify the cooling rate. Response: Thanks for the reviewer's suggestion. According to the reviewer's suggestion, we made o-CB film and PEDOT:PSS film based on the same concentration, along with the other two most commonly used hole transport materials (PTAA and Me-4PAZC) in p-i-n devices. we tested and calculated the cooling rate of o-CB, PEDOT:PSS, PTAA, and Me-4PAZC (with the same concentration of 1.3 wt%). The experimental results are shown in Fig.  R3 . It can be seen that the cooling rate of o-CB is 0.5 â„ƒ/s, which is higher than that of the other three materials. We updated Supplementary Figure  1  in the revised manuscript.  Response: Thanks for the reviewer's suggestion. According to the reviewer's suggestion, we conducted further analysis on factors that may improve the thermal stability of the device. To demonstrate that the improved crystallization of perovskite does not invalidate the increase of thermal conductivity introduced by o-CB, leading to improved thermal stability of the device, we directly dropped the precursor solution with/without o-CB onto the substrate. We then placed them on a 100 Â°C hot plate for 15 minutes to allow the excess solvent to completely evaporate. After annealing, we connected the thin film with a T-type thermocouple and placed them under 100 mW cm -2 of AM 1.5G light for temperature tracking. The results are shown in Fig.  R4 . For poorly crystalline films, the pristine perovskite film exhibited a continuously higher temperature than the o-CB-treated film upon heating. More discussion was added in the revised manuscript: "The enhanced thermal stability might stem from the following reasons: 1) the improved thermal conductivity of o-CB, which suppresses thermal accumulation; 33 2) the enhanced contact between perovskite and HTL and 3) a more appropriate band alignment at the buried interface, 34 thereby reducing non-radiative recombination and the generation of phonons (heat). In addition, the introduction of o-CB also improves the crystallization of perovskite, which also contributes to enhanced thermal stability.  35  To demonstrate that the improved crystallization of perovskite does not invalidate the increase of thermal conductivity introduced by o-CB, leading to improved thermal stability of the device, we directly dropped the precursor solution with/without o-CB onto the substrate. We then placed them on a 100 Â°C hot plate for 15 minutes to allow the excess solvent to completely evaporate. After annealing, we connected the thin film with a T-type thermocouple and placed them under 100 mW cm -2 of AM 1.5G light for temperature tracking. The results are shown in Supplementary Fig.  22 . For poorly crystalline films, the pristine perovskite film exhibited a continuously higher temperature than the film treated by o-CB upon heating."  
 REVIEWERS' COMMENTS Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): I am safisfied with the revisions. Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): Ok, the manuscript has further improved. For Supplementary Figure  1 , please add that used concentrafion in the capfion. Regarding my other point about the alternafive explanafions, I would suggest wrifing this a bit more clearly "To demonstrate that the improved crystallizafion of perovskite does not invalidate the increase of thermal conducfivity introduced by o-CB, leading to improved thermal stability of the device". I was mostly concerned that the are in principal many factors (e.g. enhanced contact between perovskite and HTL, befter band alignment, improved perovskite crystallizafion) that can lead to improved stability, and it's hard to assign it conclusively to the enhanced thermal conducfivity (which is the main point here). However, it is parfially acknowledged. "The enhanced thermal stability might stem from the following reasons" so I am okay with it. The authors can check if any claims need to be slightly adjusted along these lines. Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): I am satisfied with the revisions. Response: Thank the reviewer for approving our revision. Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): Ok, the manuscript has further improved. For Supplementary Figure  1 , please add that used concentration in the caption. Response: According to the suggestion of the reviewer, we have added the concentrations in the caption of Supplementary Figure  1  in the revised supporting information. Regarding my other point about the alternative explanations, I would suggest writing this a bit more clearly "To demonstrate that the improved crystallization of perovskite does not invalidate the increase of thermal conductivity introduced by o-CB, leading to improved thermal stability of the device". I was mostly concerned that the are in principal many factors (e.g. enhanced contact between perovskite and HTL, better band alignment, improved perovskite crystallization) that can lead to improved stability, and it's hard to assign it conclusively to the enhanced thermal conductivity (which is the main point here). However, it is partially acknowledged. "The enhanced thermal stability might stem from the following reasons" so I am okay with it. The authors can check if any claims need to be slightly adjusted along these lines. Response: Thank the reviewer for the suggestions, we have made adjustments in the revised manuscript. The revised section has been highlighted in yellow. Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author):Improving the thermal and operation stability of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells is critical for the commercialization of all-perovskite tandem solar cells. This manuscript takes the heat transfer model as the starting points, providing us a new perspective to evaluate the performance and application of Pb-Sn perovskite solar cells. The authors discovered the regulation of heat dissipation and charge transfer by introducing o-CB into Pb-Sn perovskite precursor solution. Through the o-CB treatment, the occurrence of localized areas with heat accumulation (hotspots) was efficiently suppressed, resulting in improved long-term thermal stability. Mixed Pb-Sn sub-cells retained 80% of its initial PCE after 1,080 h aging at 85 oC.The o-CB treatment also reduced interface recombination. They achieved maximal in-lab measured PCEs of 23.44% and 27.2% for mixed Pb-Sn single junction and all-perovskite tandem solar cells. The tandem remained at 87% of its initial PCE after 704 h of continuous operation under illumination. However, there are several crucial scientific problems before considering its suitubility for publication in Nat Comm, especially in heat transfer model and performance measurement of tandem cells. Meanwhile, there is a lack of convincing characterization to demonstrate the effects of this additive. The detailed comments are as follows:1. In Fig.2c and 2d, perovskite films with o-CB show a faster cooling and slower heating up. How can we explain that perovskite films with o-CB exhibit a thermal diode-like effect?Response: The exhibition of the diode-like effect is caused by the thermal conductivity difference in perovskites and o-CB. The faster cooling and slower heating up in our samples are attributed to the higher specific heat capacity and lower thermal conductivity of o-CB compared to perovskites. Specifically, during heating, o-CB with a high specific heat capacity will show a decrease in thermal conductivity along with the increase in temperature. Such characteristics will result in slower heat absorption and temperature rising, and thus cause faster cooling and slower heating up in our samples.Moreover, the schematic diagram in Fig.1bshows that o-CB is deposited at the bottom of the perovskite film, which can be understood as an ultrathin conductor in series between PEDOT: PSS and perovskite, so how does such a small amount of materials affect the thermal conductivity change of the entire device?Response: We here attribute the excellent heat dispersion ability of o-CB to its excellent intrinsic thermal conductivity. o-CB involves threedimensional networks of atoms that allow efficient transmission of thermal energy through the material. It is also an electron-delocalized molecule with significant overlap between adjacent atomic orbitals. This allows electrons to move freely, facilitating heat transfer in the entire device.Considering that the perovskite film thickness is less than 1 um, such an amount of o-CB should be enough for efficient heat transfer. This is /smll.202207092), where even less concentrated molecules were used to regulate the heat dispersion.The authors need to show the thermal conductivity change of the whole device to analyze this problem, not the change of the sole perovskite film. 
 Fig. R1 . R1 Fig. R1. Thermal conductivities of the complete devices with perovskite films treated with/without o-CB. 
 Fig Fig. R2. Cross-sectional SEM images of perovskite films (a) without and (b) with o-CB. 
 Fig. R3 . R3 Fig. R3. (a) J-V characteristics of the champion devices w/ and w/o o-CB. (b) EQE spectra and integrated Jsc of the devices w/ and w/o o-CB. 
 Fig. R4 . R4 Fig. R4. Thermal stability of PSCs with and without BBMS annealing at 85 Â°C in an N2 glovebox. 
 Response: In general, an all-perovskite tandem solar cell is composed of a narrow-bandgap sub-cell, a wide-bandgap sub-cell, and an interconnecting layer. The loss of open-circuit voltage (V OC ) primarily stems from these Therefore, minimizing the loss of V OC requires: 1) reducing the defects in narrow-bandgap sub-cells, which originate from low-quality perovskite films and p-doping defects caused by the oxidation of Sn 2+ to Sn 4+ . 2) suppressing halide segregation in wide-bandgap perovskite, which is considered a major source of V OC losses in widebandgap devices. 3) improving the quality of the interconnecting layer to reduce series resistance and eliminate lateral shunt pathways. 
 bandgap devices. According to the suggestion from the reviewer, we introduced o-CB into the wide-bandgap perovskite films and found that o-CB can suppress I-Br separation, as shown in Fig. R5. Therefore, the high operational stability of the all-perovskite tandem solar cell is attributed to the stable narrow-bandgap sub-cell and wide-bandgap sub-cell due to the introduction of o-CB. This reason has been added to the revised manuscript and Fig. R5 has been added as Supplementary Fig. 26 to the revised Supporting Information. 
 Fig. R5 . R5 Fig. R5. XRD patterns of the perovskite films a) without and b) with o-CB treatment before and after 100 mW cm -2 white light illumination for 2 days. 
 beyond the scope of our work. 
 FigureS1that the cooling rate of o-carborane is nearly twice as fast as that 
 Fig Fig. R6. AFM image and height analysis of a) o-CB and b) PEDOT:PSS surface on pure glass. 
 Fig. R7. SEM of pristine film and treated with o-CB before heating at 85 Â°C. 
 temperature response on the film side was then transmitted to the ITO backside for real-time temperature monitoring and determination. The monitoring results showed consistency with the surface temperature displayed by the IR Camera imaging, indicating that this method can be utilized to confirm the surface temperature of the film.Regarding the importance of electron transfer to o-CB, the authors may find a recent study interesting that demonstrated o-CB as an interfacial layer at the n-tpye interface which improved the electron transfer as well (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-34203-x).Response: We have now cited it in the revised manuscript as ref. 32. 
 Fig. R8 . R8 Fig. R8. Energy level arrangement of the complete device. 
 Fig Fig. R9. J-V characteristics of the champion devices with different carboranes. 
 photothermal effect, which leads to a temperature increase 
 Fig. R10 . R10 Fig. R10. XRD patterns of the perovskite films a) without and b) with o-CB treatment before and after 100 mW cm -2 white light illumination for 2 days. 
 Fig. R1 . R1 Fig. R1. Comparison of the heating up process of devices w/ and w/o o-CB through IR thermal images. These pictures were taken from the glass side. 
 Fig. R2 . R2 Fig. R2. Differential lifetime versus the logarithm of the PL intensity (ln(Î¦PL)).More discussion was added in the revised manuscript: "We further described the PL decay using the differential lifetime (Ï„PL), which can be 
 Fig. R3 . R3 Fig. R3. Variation of surface temperature with time for o-CB (1.3 wt%) ã€Me-4PACZ (1.3 wt%) ã€PTAA (1.3 wt%) and PEDOT:PSS (1.3 wt%) from 100 â„ƒ to 25 â„ƒ. Cooling rate: PEDOT:PSSrate = 0.341 â„ƒ/s; PTAA rate = 0.3125 â„ƒ/s ; Me-4PACZ rate = 0.31 â„ƒ/s; o-CBrate = 0.5 â„ƒ/s. 
 Fig. R4 . R4 Fig. R4. Continuous recording of the temperature change of perovskite films w/ and w/o o-CB treatment under illumination (AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm -2 ).
Paper #: 13753_4
Title: Sustainable thermal regulation improves stability and efficiency in all-perovskite tandem solar cells
Mixed Sn-Pb perovskites have emerged as promising photovoltaic materials for both single-and multi-junction solar cells. However, achieving their scaleup and practical application requires further enhancement in stability. We identify that their poor thermal conductivity results in insufficient thermal transfer, leading to heat accumulation within the absorber layer that accelerates thermal degradation. A thermal regulation strategy by incorporating carboranes into perovskites is developed; these are electron-delocalized carbon-boron molecules known for their efficient heat transfer capability. We specifically select ortho-carborane due to its low thermal hysteresis. We observe its existence through the perovskite layer showing a decreasing trend from the buried interface to the top surface, effectively transferring heat and lowering the surface temperature by around 5 Â°C under illumination. o-CB also facilitates hole extraction at the perovskite/PEDOT:PSS interface and reduces charge recombination. These enable mixed Sn-Pb cells to exhibit improved thermal stability, retaining 80% of their initial efficiencies after aging at 85 Â°C for 1080 hours. When integrated into monolithic all-perovskite tandems, we achieve efficiencies of over 27%. A tandem cell maintains 87% of its initial PCE after 704 h of continuous operation under illumination.
Due to their exceptional photoelectric properties and ease of fabrication, the certified power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have reached 26.1%, matching that of commercial silicon solar cells at a lower cost  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5]  . To further boost the PCEs, mixed tin (Sn)-lead (Pb) perovskites with a more ideal bandgap of around 1.25 eV have garnered increasing attention  [6] [7] [8] [9] [10]  . They are also critical components in all-perovskite tandem solar cells, offering the potential to exceed the Shockley-Queisser limit for single-junction solar cells  [11] [12] [13] [14]  . However, there remains room to further increase their efficiency and stability before achieving requirements for commercialization. The generation of heat in solar cells caused by (1) energy dissipation as phonons during thermal relaxation and non-radiative recombination processes and (2) reverse-biases heating (Joule heating) is detrimental to their stability and efficiency  15  . This is particularly prominent in perovskite-based solar cells: their poor thermal conductivity (in comparison with conventional photovoltaic materials such as silicon) results in heat accumulation and the formation of hotspots in solar cell absorbers, making them extremely prone to thermal degradation  15  . Thermal regulation has been proven important in electronics and silicon solar cells for improving device performance and durability but has received limited attention in mixed Sn-Pb PSCs and tandems  [16] [17] [18]  . Due to the inferior thermal stability and facile oxidation of Sn 2+ in mixed Sn-Pb perovskites that induce extra surface defects for heat generation during recombination  19, 20  , it becomes crucial to enhance the thermal conductivity and the heat transfer ability in mixed Sn-Pb solar cells. To achieve this, a heat transfer material possessing high thermal conductivity and stability is necessary to be introduced. Carboranes are electron-delocalized carbon-boron molecules with significant overlap between atomic orbitals of neighboring atoms, allowing electrons to move freely, and spread out over a larger region within the materials  21  . The characteristic of electron delocalization enables them to improve thermal conductivity and efficient carrier transport  22  . Herein, we selected aromatic ortho-carborane (o-CB, C 2 B 10 H 12 ) as representative due to its exceptional heat transfer ability and chemical stability in the series (Supplementary Fig.  1  and Fig.  1a ). We introduced o-CB into the precursor solutions of mixed Sn-Pb perovskites and found that o-CB exits through the absorber layer showing a decreasing trend from the buried interface to the top surface (Fig.  1b  and Supplementary Fig.  2 ), providing an overall improvement in heat dissipation. In addition, o-CB isolates the direct contact between the    perovskite and the acidic PEDOT: PSS, potentially suppressing the degradation at elevated temperatures. 
 Results To test the improved thermal stability, we first conducted X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements on perovskite films w/ and w/o o-CB after thermal treatment at 25, 100, and 150 Â°C (Fig.  1c, d ). PbI 2 peaks were not detected in the original films stored at room temperature. After heating for 4 h at 100 Â°C, the PbI 2 peak intensity of the pristine perovskite film became significantly higher than that of the films treated by o-CB. The PbI 2 peak intensity of the pristine film further increased after thermal treatment at 150 Â°C for 4 h, indicating that the pristine perovskite film is less thermally stable. Their degradation was visualized by using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the initial morphology of perovskite films w/ and w/o o-CB is shown in Supplementary Fig.  3 . The o-CB treated film showed uniform grains without visible decomposition after heating at 85 Â°C for 200 h, while secondphase flakes and visible decomposition (yellow rectangle) were observed on the pristine film (Fig.  1e, f ), which should be associated with PbI 2 residuals that have been detected in XRD. 
 Heat transfer The heat transfer ability was further confirmed by testing the throughplane thermal conductivity (TC) of Sn-Pb perovskite films treated by o-CB using the hot-disk technique (see detailed information in the supplementary materials and Supplementary Table  1 )  23  . As shown in Fig.  2b , the TC of the pristine perovskite film was 2.476 W m -1 k -1 at 25 Â°C. It increased to 2.697 W m -1 k -1 for the film treated with 1 mg mL -1 o-CB. The TCs further dropped to 2.441 and 2.592 W m -1 k -1 at 55 Â°C, 2.325 and 2.486 W m -1 k -1 at 85 Â°C, for pristine and 1 mg mL -1 o-CB treated films, respectively. This may originate from the reduced electron motion path due to the more frequent collision among lattices at a higher temperature  24  . The improvement in thermal conductivity after o-CB treatment is also beneficial for heat dissipation in whole devices as demonstrated in Supplementary Fig.  4 . We used an infrared thermal imaging camera to visually monitor the heat dissipation of mixed Sn-Pb films w/ and w/o o-CB  25  . The architecture of the testing films is indium tin oxide (ITO)/PEDOT:PSS/ perovskites w/ and w/o o-CB (see detailed information in the supplementary materials). The films were at an original temperature of 85 Â°C. Once placed on a 25 Â°C hotplate, the temperature profile of the film with o-CB treatment showed faster cooling than the pristine one (Fig.  2c ). Besides, the pristine film exhibited consistently higher temperature than the o-CB treated sample upon heating (Fig.  2d ). The faster cooling and slower heating up in o-CB treated samples are attributed to the higher specific heat capacity and lower thermal conductivity of o-CB compared to perovskites. We then used T-type thermocouples to conduct real-time temperature monitor to investigate the photothermal response of each layer in PSCs with the architecture shown in Supplementary Fig.  5  26 . The temperature change in each layer in the 2000 s simulated one-sun illumination was analyzed and recorded. The main source of heat generation was found to originate from the perovskite layer. The surface temperature of the pristine film reached 41 Â°C after 2000 s, while it was 36 Â°C for the o-CB treated sample (Fig.  2e ). In addition, we conducted tests on the thermal resistance and thermal transmissivity of the entire device, which provided insights into the device's heat conduction capacity. We can see from Supplementary Table  2  that after the introduction of o-CB, the device's thermal resistance at 25, 55, and 85 Â°C is lower than that of the pristine device at each temperature, while the thermal transmissivity is higher than that of the pristine device at each temperature, thus achieving better heat dissipation. To gain insight into how the o-CB affects the long-term thermal stability of PSCs at high temperatures, the specific heat capacity of o-CB under 1 atm at different temperatures was studied. The heat capacity affects the temperature field and, hence, the heat transfer and flow status  27  . The specific heat capacity of o-CB increased continuously with temperature (Fig.  2f ), resulting in a slowdown of the rate at which the internal temperature rises during heating. In comparison to the pristine film which exhibited a localized area of heat accumulation (hotspot) relating to the temperature of the substrate, the thermal conductivity, and the thickness of the perovskite film 28 , the o-CB treated film showed improved heat dissipation and a more uniform temperature distribution (Fig.  2g , h and Supplementary Fig.  6 ). 
 Recombination reduction The existence of o-CB doesn't change the perovskite composition (ultraviolet-visible absorption spectra and XRD, Supplementary Figs.  7  and 8 ), but modifies the crystallization dynamics and improves the film quality as evidenced by XRD (Supplementary Fig.  8 ) and SEM (Fig.  3a, b, d , e and Supplementary Table  3 ). Notably, the perovskite grains of films with o-CB showed perpendicular growth on the substrate (Fig.  3e ), which may be attributed to the template-growth of grains assisted by o-CB, contributing to reduced grain boundaries (GBs), and more homogeneous and compact film morphology  29  . Peeling off the perovskite films using solidified glue (Supplementary Fig.  9 ), the buried surface of the pristine film showed nanovoids and nano-cracks at the bottom of the perovskite (Fig.  3c ), while these were highly suppressed in the o-CB treated film (Fig.  3f ), indicating an improved interfacial contact, which can reduce leakage current and improve device performance. The improved film quality also contributed to reduced Sn oxidation  28  . The lower Sn 4+ content in the film treated by o-CB than in the pristine film was confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) as shown in Supplementary Fig.  10 . We performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations to provide insight into interactions between o-CB and perovskite. The simulation results in Fig.  3g  show that o-CB was adsorbed at the center of the four iodine atoms on the perovskite surface. The interactions between the two were dominated by van der Waals forces, with an adsorption energy of -0.32 eV, indicating that o-CB and perovskite can stably combine. This was supported by the charge density difference calculation, which showed that electrons of the iodine atom were attracted towards the o-CB side, resulting in a significant decrease in electron density in the upper layer of the perovskite (Fig.  3h, i ), indicating the significant interactions between o-CB and perovskite. The electron transfer was further confirmed by the electronic location function (ELF)  30  , which shows that the electron profile of iodine interacting directly with o-CB was slightly reduced (Supplementary Figs.  11  and 12 ). Bader charge analysis was implemented to quantitatively demonstrate electron transfer between the two. The analysis revealed a charge transfer of 0.3 e -from the perovskite to o-CB. The electron cloud density of o-CB is larger, making it easier for electrons to escape into a vacuum, thereby raising the fermi energy level, which was confirmed by VASP calculation (Supplementary Table  4 ). The improved interfacial energy level was verified by the ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) measurements (Supplementary Figs.  13  and 14 ). The valence band maximum of a perovskite film shifted from -5.42 to -5.31 eV after o-CB treatment, making its band offset with the highest occupied molecular orbital of PEDOT:PSS smaller and reducing interfacial recombination. It has also been noted that the Fermi level (E f ) of the o-CB-treated film upshifted 0.33 eV (Supplementary Fig.  15 ), suggesting a more n-type doped characteristic, which is in good agreement with the suppressed Sn oxidation as discussed above (Supplementary Fig.  10 )  31  . The improved perovskite film quality and interfacial contact were further confirmed by the increased photoluminescence (PL, Supplementary Fig.  16 ) intensity and prolonged Time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) lifetime increasing from 358 ns for the pristine film to 630 ns for the films after o-CB treatment (Supplementary Fig.  17  and Supplementary Table  5 ). We further described the PL decay using the differential lifetime (Ï„ PL ), which can be estimated in terms of the following Eq. (  1 ): Ï„ PL = Ã€ 1 m dlnÃ°Î¦ PL Ãž dt Ã€1 Ã°1Ãž where Î¦ PL (t) is the PL intensity at t after the photoexcitation, and m is a factor in relation to the injection level, which is set as 2 in this work. By solving the Equation, the results are shown in Supplementary Fig.  18  by plotting Ï„ PL as a function of the logarithm of PL intensity ln(Î¦ PL ). According to the platform part of the data result curve, we extracted the effective Shockley reading Hall (SRH) lifetime in the bulk (glass/ perovskite) of Ï„ oÃ€CB SRH = 3.19 Î¼s and Ï„ Ctrl SRH = 278.6 ns. Depending on the defect concentration, SRH lifetime is related to the defect-mediated recombination in perovskite bulk. It demonstrates that perovskite film containing o-CB has a higher SRH lifetime. The reduction of the SRH recombination center of the film with o-CB treatment ushered in a higher SRH lifetime, which also proved that the defect density of the film after o-CB treatment was lower. 
 Solar cell efficiency and stability To investigate the effect of o-CB on the photovoltaic performance, we fabricated inverted p-i-n PSCs with an ITO/PEDOT:PSS/perovskite/C 60 / SnO 2 /Ag configuration. The optimal concentration of o-CB for obtaining the highest efficiency was 1.0 mg/mL (Supplementary Fig.  19 ). Transient photovoltage (TPV) decay measurements was first conducted to investigate the charge transport properties  32  . The TPV decay lifetime of the o-CB-treated device was 48 Î¼s, compared with 34 Î¼s for the pristine device (Fig.  4a ), indicating enhanced hole extraction and reduced charge accumulation at the interface. The statistics of the performance parameters indicated an overall improvement in all parameters and better reproducibility after o-CB treatment (Supplementary Fig.  20  and Supplementary Table  6 ). The PCE of the champion device after o-CB treatment was 23.4%, with a short-circuit current density (J SC ) of 32.19 mA cm  -2  , an open-circuit voltage (V OC ) of 0.877 V, and a fill factor (FF) of 0.829, surpassing that of the pristine one (Fig.  4b ). In addition, the o-CB treated device exhibited lower hysteresis (Supplementary Fig.  21 ). At higher temperatures, charge accumulation occurs, causing higher charge recombination losses, thereby causing the occurrence of hysteresis. The device treated with o-CB can reduce charge accumulation under illumination conditions, decreasing charge recombination losses and thus suppressing the J-V hysteresis. Figure  4c  shows the external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra of champion devices w/ and w/o being treated with o-CB. The integrated current density of 31.0 mA cm -2 and 30.2 mA cm -2 agreed well with the values from J-V measurements. The stabilized power output (SPO) measured at the maximum power point (MPP) for devices w/ and w/o o-CB treatment resulted in a stabilized PCE of 22.94% and 20.18% without decay for 300 s, respectively (Fig.  4d ). We tested the stability of mixed Sn-Pb solar cells at 85 Â°C. The o-CB treated devices retained 80% of the original PCE after 1080 h, while the pristine devices maintained only 40% of the initial PCE after ~200 h (Fig.  4e ). The enhanced thermal stability might stem from the following reasons: (1) the improved thermal conductivity of o-CB, which suppresses thermal accumulation 33 ; (2) the enhanced contact between perovskite and HTL and (3) a more appropriate band alignment at the buried interface  34  , thereby reducing non-radiative recombination and the generation of phonons (heat). In addition, the introduction of o-CB also improves the crystallization of perovskite, which also contributes to enhanced thermal stability  35  . However, the improved crystallization of perovskite cannot invalidate the increase of thermal conductivity due to the introduction of o-CB that leads to improved thermal stability of the device (Supplementary Fig.  22 ). Figure  4f  exhibits the MPP tracking of the mixed Sn-Pb solar cells w/ and w/o o-CB treatment under continuous one-sun illumination. The o-CB-treated device retained 90% of its initial PCE after 1000 h. In comparison, the pristine device retained only 62% of its original PCE after 400 h. The o-CB-treated device also showed better storage stability (Supplementary Fig.  23 ), retaining 96% of its initial PCE after 2000 h under an N 2 atmosphere. The universality of this approach was also verified by the significantly improved performance and thermal stability of PSCs based on pure lead perovskite after introducing o-CB (Supplementary Figs.  24  and 25 ). We integrated o-CB treated low-bandgap mixed Sn-Pb subcells into monolithically integrated all-perovskite tandem solar cells (Supplementary Fig.  26 ). The J-V curves of the tandem and wide-bandgap solar cells are shown in Fig.  4g  and Supplementary Fig.  27 . We achieved a champion PCE of 27.2 (27.1) % for the tandem solar cells, with V OC of 2.16 (2.15), J SC of 15.6 (15.7) mA/cm 2 and FF of 81 (80) % under reverse (forward) scan direction (Table  1 ). The SPO of the tandem solar cell was kept at 27% over 200 s (inserted in Fig.  4g ). The current densities of the subcells calculated from EQE were 15.8 and 15.2 mA/cm 2 (Fig.  4h ), consistent with the J-V measurements. We further tested the stability of the encapsulated tandem solar cells under simulated one-sun illumination at MPP. The pristine tandem retained 87% of its initial PCE after 704 h of continuous operation (Fig.  4i ). Further improving the stability of tandem solar cells lies in the enhancement of wide-bandgap subcells, such as the suppression of I-Br segregation under illumination as shown in Supplementary Fig.  28    36  . 
 Discussion In this study, we have developed a sustainable strategy that utilizes electron-delocalized carboranes o-CB to regulate heat dissipation and facilitate charge transfer in mixed Sn-Pb and tandem solar cells. Through the application of o-CB treatment, the occurrence of localized areas with heat accumulation (hotspots) was efficiently suppressed, resulting in improved long-term thermal stability. Mixed Sn-Pb cell retained 80% of its initial PCE after 1080 h aging at 85 Â°C. o-CB treatment also reduced interface recombination. We achieved maximum PCEs of 23.4% and 27.2% for mixed Sn-Pb single-junction and allperovskite tandem solar cells. The tandem remained at 87% of its initial PCE after 704 h of continuous operation under illumination. 
 Methods 
 Materials and solvents All chemicals were purchased from commercial distributors and are used directly upon receipt without further processing. Methylammonium iodide (MAI, â‰¥99.5%), methylammonium bromide (MABr), bathocuproine (BCP, >99%), Phenethylammonium iodide (PEAI) and PEDOT:PSS (CLEVIOS P VP AI 4083 from Heraeus) were purchased from Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp. Formamidine iodide (FAI),  Tetrakis(dimethylamino)tin(IV) (99.9999%) for atomic-layer-deposited (ALD) SnO 2 was bought from Nanjing Ai Mou Yuan Scientific Equipment. N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.8%, Acros), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 99.9%, Acros), isopropanol (IPA, 99.5%, Acros), ethyl acetate (EA, Acros), diethyl ether (Acros), chlorobenzene (CB, 99.8%, Acros) and methanol (Acros) were from Beijing Innochem Science & Technology co., LTD. 
 Precursor solution preparation The NBG mixed Sn-Pb Cs 0.1 MA 0.2 FA 0.7 Pb 0.5 Sn 0.5 I 3 perovskite precursor. The precursor solution (1.8 M) was prepared by dissolving PbI 2 (415 mg), SnI 2 (335.3 mg), FAI (216.8 mg), MAI (57.4 mg), CsI (46.8 mg), SnF 2 (9.4 mg), were dissolved in a mixture of DMSO: DMF (v:v = 3:1) solvent. Then 0 mg mL -1 ã€1 mg mL -1 and 2 mg mL -1 of additive o-CB were dissolved into the precursor mixture, and finally, the magnets were put into the mixed solution and stirred on a stirrer to dissolve completely. The WBG FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 Pb(I 0.7 Br 0.3 ) 3 perovskite precursor. The precursor solution was prepared by dissolving PbI 2 (233.2 mg), FAI (126.6 mg), CsI (47.8 mg), PbBr 2 (152.0 mg), were dissolved in a mixture of DMF: DMSO (v:v = 3:1) solvent. The Cs 0.05 MA 0.05 FA 0.9 Pb(I 0.97 Br 0.03 ) 3 -based perovskite precursor solution. The precursor solution was prepared by dissolving PbI 2 (689.2 mg), PbBr 2 (27.5 mg), FAI (232.8 mg), MABr (7.9 mg), CsI (19.4 mg), MACl (25.3 mg) dissolved in a mixture of DMF: DMSO (v:v = 4:1) solvent. Then 0 mg mL -1 , 0.5 mg mL -1 , and 1 mgmL -1 of additive o-CB were dissolved into the precursor mixture. 
 Device fabrication Substrate cleaning. The ITO glass substrate was placed in an alkaline cleaning solution, deionized water, acetone, and ethanol cleaning in turn, and then in the oven to dry after cleaning. Before using the ITO glass substrate, it should be treated with O 2 plasma cleaner for 600 s to make the surface hydrophilic. Device fabrication for NBG mixed Sn-Pb PSCs. In this experiment, perovskite solar cells with an inverted p-i-n structure were assembled. Firstly, the HTL was prepared by taking 80 Î¼L of PEDOT:PSS filtered with 0.22-Î¼m PTFE and suspended on the ITO glass substrate at 4000 rpm for 30 s with an acceleration of 1500 r.p.m. s -1 , followed by annealing at 140 Â°C for 15 min. After annealing, the substrates were transferred into an N 2 -filled glove box for the subsequent steps. Next, the precursor solution was filtered by 0.22-Î¼m PTFE and coated on PEDOT:PSS at 1000 r.p.m. for 10 s, with an acceleration of 500 r.p.m. s -1 , then CB was dropped at a suitable speed in drops on the substrate at the 20th second before the end of the second step (4000 r.p.m. for 40 s). After suspension, the film was immediately transferred to a hot plate at 100 Â°C for 10 min. 25 nm of C 60 were evaporated. The substrates were then transferred to an ALD system to deposit SnO 2 (20 nm) at 85 Â°C. After that, the substrates were transferred to an evaporator to deposit 90 nm Ag. Device fabrication for all-perovskite tandem solar cells. Me-4PACZ (1 mg mL -1 dissolved in MeOH) was spin-coated onto the ITO. The hole transport layer Me-4PACZ (1 mg mL -1 ) was coated on the ITO glass substrates at 3000 r.p.m. for 25 s, followed by 100 Â°C annealing for 10 min. Then DMF (70 Î¼L) was spin-coated at 4000 r.p.m. for 10 s to improve the wettability of the Me-4PACZ surface prior to the WBG perovskite deposition. The perovskite precursor was spincoated at 500 r.p.m. for 3 s and then at 4000 r.p.m. for 60 s. During the second step (4000 r.p.m. for 60 s), the diethyl ether (750 Î¼L) was applied dropwise at a suitable speed in the center of the substrate to facilitate the crystallization. After that, the substrate was annealed at 60 Â°C for 2 min and at 100 Â°C for 5 min. 25 nm of C 60 was evaporated. The substrates were then transferred to an ALD system to deposit SnO 2 (20 nm) at 85 Â°C. After that, the substrates were transferred to an evaporator to deposit 1 nm Au. Then PEDOT:PSS was coated with Au spinning at 4000 r.p.m. for 30 s. After the end of spin coating, it was heated and annealed at 100Â°C for 10 min. After cooling, the substrates were transferred to the N 2 -filled glove box to deposit the NBG subcells using the above-mentioned method. Firstly, the HTL was prepared by taking 80 Î¼L of PEDOT:PSS filtered with 0.22-Î¼m PTFE and suspended on the substrates at 4000 rpm for 30 s with an acceleration of 1500 r.p.m. s -1 , followed by annealing at 140 Â°C for 15 min. After annealing, the substrates were transferred into an N 2 -filled glove box for the subsequent steps. Next, the precursor solution was coated on PEDOT:PSS at 1000 r.p.m. for 10 s, with an acceleration of 500 r.p.m. s -1 , then CB was dropped at a suitable speed in drops on the substrate at the 20th second before the end of the second step (4000 r.p.m. for 40 s). After suspension, the film was immediately transferred to a hot plate at 100 Â°C for 10 min. 25 nm of C 60 were evaporated. The substrates were then transferred to an ALD system to deposit SnO 2 (20 nm) at 85 Â°C. After that, the substrates were transferred to an evaporator to deposit 90 nm Ag. Device fabrication for Cs 0.05 MA 0.05 FA 0.9 Pb(I 0.97 Br 0.03 ) 3 -based. The device fabrication was carried out in a glove box. First, the HTL Me-4PACZ was prepared at a concentration of 1 mg mL -1 . The prepared solution was spin-coated onto the ITO substrate at 3000 r.p.m. for 25 s and then annealed at 100 Â°C for 10 min. After cooling, the precursor solution filtered through 0.22-Î¼m PTFE was coated on the top of HTL at 2500 r.p.m. for 10 s, followed by 5000 r.p.m. for 40 s, and the anti-solvent EA was slowly dripped at the 30th second before the end of the second step (5000 r.p.m. for 40 s). After suspension coating, the films were immediately transferred to a hot plate at 100 Â°C for 30 min. After cooling, PEAI (1 mg mL -1 dissolved in IPA) was coated to the perovskite layer as a passivation layer at 5000 r.p.m. for 25 s and annealed at 100 Â°C for 10 min. After cooling, the layer was cleaned with IPA. 25 nm of C 60 was evaporated. The substrates were then transferred to an ALD system to deposit SnO 2 (20 nm) at 85 Â°C. After that, the substrates were transferred to an evaporator to deposit 90 nm Ag. 
 Characterization Thermal characterization. The instrument used to test the thermal conductivity was the Hotdisk model DRL-III. The temperature of each layer was measured by a T thermocouple, model YET-610, 1 channel, at a measurement rate of 2 times s -1 . The thermal images were obtained by using a thermal infrared camera (FLIR T640). Ansys icepak. The Ansys Icepak was used to simulate the device's heat dissipation process. The physical model of the ITO glass layer and perovskite layer are 0.17 Ã— 0.18 Ã— 0.01 mm 3 and 0.17 Ã— 0.18 Ã— 0.0005 mm 3 . The mesh dissection was performed to partition the model into computable mesh models. The initial temperature was set to 25 Â°C. The heat dissipation process between the perovskite and the contact surface was heat conduction transfer, and the heat dissipation process between the perovskite and the environment was convection heat transfer. The period of the whole heat transfer process was 10 s, and no boundary conditions were set for the whole process. Fig. 1 | 1 Fig. 1 | The structure of carboranes and stability of the perovskite films. a Three Isomers of Carboranes. The smaller of thermal hysteresis (TH), the greater of energy loss, indicating the better heat dissipation. These isomers have the THs of 8 K, 9 K, and 11 K for ortho-carborane, meta-carborane, and para-carborane, respectively. Therefore, o-CB has the best heat dissipation ability among these three isomers. b Configuration of the p-i-n device treated with o-CB and schematic diagram of the heat dissipation. XRD spectra of pristine perovskite films c and perovskite films treated with o-CB d at different temperatures. SEM of the pristine film e and treated with o-CB f after heating at 85 Â°C for 200 h. The scale bar is 500 nm. 
 Fig. 2 | 2 Fig. 2 | The improvement of heat transfer. a Software simulation analysis of the heat absorption for perovskite films treated with/without o-CB. The simulation within 1.5 s can accurately represent the same initial temperature point for both the pristine film and the film treated with o-CB. b Thermal conductivity of the perovskite films treated with different concentrations of o-CB. c Comparison of the cooling process of pristine perovskite film and perovskite film with o-CB through IR thermal images. The architecture of the testing films is ITO/PEDOT:PSS/perovskites w/ and w/o o-CB. d Comparison of the heating up process of pristine perovskite film and perovskite film with o-CB through IR thermal images. The architecture of the testing films is ITO/PEDOT:PSS/perovskites w/ and w/o o-CB. e Continuous recording of the temperature change of each layer of the device under illumination (AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm -2 ). f Specific heat capacity change of the o-CB molecule at different temperatures. g IR thermal images of pristine perovskite film (5 cm * 5 cm) and perovskite film with o-CB treatment (5 cm * 5 cm) under 1-sun illumination for 2000 s. h Temperature distribution of perovskite films. The zero point of the x-axis refers to the center of the films. 
 Fig. 3 | 3 Fig. 3 | Morphology characterization of perovskite films and DFT theoretical calculations. Top-view SEM images of the surface of perovskite films a without and d with o-CB. Cross-sectional SEM images of perovskite films. The scale bar is 500 nm. b without and e with o-CB. The scale bar is 1 Î¼m. Buried bottom surfaces of the perovskite films c without and f with o-CB. The scale bar is 500 nm. g Optimized structure of perovskite with o-CB, where the o-CB molecule is located at the center of the several highlighted iodine atoms. h Front and i top views of the charge density difference between o-CB and perovskite. The blue color represents a region of electron loss after binding, and the yellow color represents a region of electron aggregation. 
 Fig. 4 | 4 Fig. 4 | Photovoltaic performance and stability. a Normalized TPV of the devices w/ and w/o o-CB. b J-V characteristics of the champion devices w/ and w/o o-CB. c EQE spectra and integrated J SC of the devices w/ and w/o o-CB. d Stable efficiency output of the devices w/ and w/o o-CB at the maximum power point. e Thermal stability of the devices w/ and w/o o-CB at 85 Â°C. The error bars represent the standard deviation of 4 devices. f MPP tracking of the devices w/ and w/o treated by o-CB. g J-V curves of the best-performing tandem device under forward and reverse voltage scan. Inset, the SPO of the tandem device. h EQE spectra of the bestperforming tandem device. i MPP tracking of the tandem device treated by o-CB. 
 Table 1 1 | PV parameters of narrow-bandgap, wide-bandgap PSCs and all-perovskite tandem solar cells Device J SC (mA cm -2 ) V OC (V) FF (%) PCE (%) NBG Reverse 32.19 0.877 82.9 23.4 Forward 32.02 0.874 83.1 23.26 WBG Reverse 18 1.26 82.9 18.8 Forward 17.95 1.28 80.9 18.59 Tandem Reverse 15.6 2.16 81 27.2 Forward 15.7 2.15 80 27.1
