Paper #: 1271_1
Title: Exploring the potential of tin-based perovskite-silicon tandem solar cells through numerical analysis: A pathway to sustainable energy innovation
Necessity is the mother of invention." The global imperative to transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, driven by the pressing issue of climate change, highlights the significance of advancing solar energy technologies. While single junction solar cells have reached a peak efficiency of approximately 31 %, the pursuit of higher efficiency has led to the exploration of tandem solar cell architectures, including perovskite-silicon and all-perovskite configurations. However, the widespread use of lead in perovskite structures raises environmental and health concerns. In response to these challenges, this study proposes a novel approach by integrating a tinbased wide bandgap absorber layer with a silicon HIT solar cell (Heterojunction with Intrinsic Layer). The investigation consists of an extensive exploration of six different carrier transport layers (CTL) for the top perovskite layer, considering variations in thickness and defect density. A comprehensive analysis of charge carrier dynamics within the device is conducted to understand the role of defect density in influencing solar cell performance parameters. Simulation results show that the overall tandem device gives an encouraging PCE of 32.12 % in 2 T configuration due to its excellent high value of current density matching 17.63 mA/cm 2 and opencircuit voltage of 2.19V. We sincerely hope that our work will open new avenues in the field of Solar Photovoltaics paving the way for future innovations.
Introduction Perovskite materials have unquestionably proven their usefulness as a robust material in the development of the solar cell. They are a kind of semiconducting material with an ABX 3 structure, where A can be organic or inorganic, such as Cs + , MA + , FA + , GA + , etc. B is a group 14 divalent metal, while X is a halide ion (Cl -, Br -, I -). They feature all the desirable properties for solar cell manufacturing, such as facile and lowtemperature solution-based fabrication processes, low exciton binding energy, high absorption coefficient, direct bandgap long carrier diffusion length, low trap density, etc  [1] [2] [3] . The capacity to alter its bandgap from 1.2eV to 3eV is what makes them the most appealing thus rendering them an excellent contender for the application of tandem solar cells. Given that sunlight has a range of wavelengths (AM 1.5), it is impossible for solar cells with a single junction to convert sunlight into energy with a conversion efficiency of more than about 31 %  [4] . Solar cells with a lower bandgap will experience thermalization losses (energy lost as heat energy) for photons with energy higher than their bandgap. Contrarily, a device with a greater bandgap will be transparent to photons of lower energy  [5] . This problem has forced the researchers to develop a device where a low bandgap material and a high bandgap material are combined to form a 2Terminal or a 4Terminal structure. The top solar cell having a wider bandgap absorbs photons of higher energy and is transparent to photons of lower energy which get absorbed subsequently by the bottom cell having a lower bandgap thus harnessing the vast solar spectrum more effectively. In a 2 T tandem solar cell, the two sub-cells are fabricated on top of each other (Fig.  1A ), with electrical and optical series coupling. As a result, just two electrical connections are needed hence the name. A highly transparent tunnel junction or a low-resistance recombination layer such as ITO(indium tin oxide) is typically used to link the sub-cells and is deposited by sputtering. The thickness of both sub-cells must be carefully tuned so that the same value of current density flows through the entire device and the total output voltage obtained from the device is the addition of individualvoltages of each sub-cell. Alternatively, a 4 T tandem device consists of two independent solar cells(higher and lower bandgap) mechanically stacked on top of each other without the need for current matching conditions  [6, 7]  (Fig.  1B ). Although all-perovskite tandem solar cells are less costly than Silicon-Perovskite tandem and have a substantially low energy payback period, replacing the silicon industry and production line which has matured tremendously in the last few decades entirely with perovskite material will be quite cumbersome and less practical at present. Hence, much focus is being given to tandem cells where the perovskite layer with a bandgap of 1.6-1.9eV as the top cell is connected to the bottom silicon cell through a recombination layer forming a 2 T structure. The first perovskite-silicon tandem cell was reported in 2015 b y Mailoa. et al. with an efficiency of 13.8 % where MAPbI 3 (Methylammonium lead iodide) with an optical bandgap of 1.55eV was used as the top cell. Since then, tremendous developments have been done which pushed the efficiency to 32.5 % achieved by a group of scientists from Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin (HZB). Table  1  depicts some notable progression in this field of 2 T silicon-perovskite Tandem since the last decade. It should be mentioned that most of the wide bandgap (1.6eV-1.9eV) absorber layers contain lead in their structure (B cation) which is known as a potent source of environmental pollution. Given their questionable stability in moisture and humid air, water-soluble Pb-based perovskite solar cells can cause severe impacts on human and animal life after being disposed of at landfills  [15] . As an alternative to lead(Pb), another group 14 element i.e., tin(Sn) is used which sits on top of lead in the periodic table. Tin-based perovskite solar cells have shown a lot of promise due to their potential higher carrier mobility as compared to lead, the reason being its greater curvature of the valence (V⋅B) and conduction band (C⋅B) edges leading to the exceptionally low effective mass of both electrons and holes  [16] . In 2016 Marshall et al. fabricated CsSnI 3 -based solar cell demonstrating an output efficiency (PCE) of 3.56 % having an optical bandgap of 1.27eV  [17] . Liu et al. have developed a perovskite solar cell using FASnI 3 as the absorber layer with a PCE of 13.8 %. Since tin-based perovskite absorber layers are prone to Sn 2+ vacancies and subsequent oxidation to Sn 4+ , various additives like SnF 2 , formamidine sulfinic acid (FSA), Hypo phosphorous acid (HPA), etc. are used to prevent this unwanted oxidation and improvement of device performance  [18, 19] . In 2020, Nishimura et al. used a mixed cationic composition of GeI 2 doped (FA 1-x EA x ) 0.98 EDA 0.01 SnI 3 (EA denotes Ethyl ammonium) with a stabilized PCE of 13.24 % and bandgap of 1.45eV  [20] . Although these discoveries are promising for the implementation of single junction lead-free PSC, producing tandem solar cells on top of silicon would be pointless with these materials due to their low bandgap values. Even though perovskites such as MASnI 2 Br and FASnI 2 Br exhibit bandgaps of 1.56eV and 1.68eV, respectively, the usage of such materials in tandem structures with the bottom silicon cell is not a viable option due to poor film morphology and relatively low PCE of about 1 %  [21, 22] . Thus, there is a clear research gap in this aspect with almost no experimental work reporting tin-based stable perovskite absorber layer with a bandgap of over 1.6eV until recently in late 2021 Cheng et al. successfully fabricated a wide bandgap stable tin-based perovskite absorber layer  [23] . They showed that on introducing small fractions of Guanidium cations, a highly stable perovskite structure is formed GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0.94 SnI 2 Br having an optical bandgap of 1.61eV and a stable PCE of 7 % hence demanding further attention. The open circuit voltage in their experimental work came out to be 0.64eV which is about 1eV less than the optical bandgap of the absorber material. As a result, there is a huge scope for further research in this field to improve the overall device performance. In this study, we have validated Cheng's work using SCAPS 1D simulation software and using the same material as absorber layer further optimized the different solar cell parameters using a wide variety of electron and hole transport layers(ETL and HTL). By properly selecting charge transport layers, adjusting their thickness, and controlling the interfacial defect densities, the efficiency can be improved from 7 % to about 18.6 %.Physical understanding of this improvement has been elaborated in great detail in the upcoming result and discussion section. Majority of the simulation work reported so far using SCAPS only focussed on J_V (Current density vs Voltage) and QE (Quantum Efficiency) curves for device analysis. Our analysis transcends  conventional approaches by incorporating impedance spectroscopy (IS) measurements, specifically capacitance versus frequency (C_f) and capacitance versus voltage (C_V) analyses, alongside traditional current density versus voltage (J_V) curves, offering a comprehensive understanding of device physics. The hysteresis behaviour of the top perovskite solar cell has also been simulated highlighting the negative effect of ion migration during forward and reverse scan. The optimized top perovskite cell is then connected to the bottom silicon HIT cell and after proper thickness tuning the overall current density flowing in series through the entire device came out to be 17.63mA/cm2 with a PCE of 32.12 % i.e greater than the SQ limit.This comprehensive approach not only advances the understanding of tin-based perovskite solar cells but also offers tangible improvements in their performance, paving the way for next-generation photovoltaic technologies. 
 Device structure and simulation parameters Top perovskite solar cell having structure FTO/PEDOT:PSS/ GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0 . 94 SnI 2 Br/PCBM/C 60 /Ag is simulated using SCAPS 1D(Solar Cell Capacitance Simulator) software. It uses drift, diffusion, and continuity equation for holes and electrons to calculate different device parameters like Open-Circuit Voltage(Voc), Quantum Efficiency (QE), Fill Factor(FF), Cell Efficiency(PCE), Current Density(Jsc), Carrier Recombination Profile etc.  [24]  The simulation tool has been developed at the University of Ghent, Belgium which has gained immense popularity worldwide for analysis thin film solar cell  [25] . According to the experimental reports  [23]  the hole diffusion length of the absorber layer (L D ) is 238.78 nm with a diffusion coefficient (Dp) of 7.6610 -9 m 2 /s which gives the hole mobility value to be 2.95 × 10 -3 cm 2 /V-s as calculated from Einstein's Equation D p μ p = kT q (1) HereT is the absolute temperature, k denotes the Boltzmann's constant, q is the electronic charge. The absorber layer behaves as a p-type material with carrier lifetime τ = 7.42 μs and doping density (N a ) 8.21 × 10 14 /cc. From the equation τ = 1 σv th N t  (2)  the capture cross-section of carriers σ and bulk defect density N t are found out to be 10 -15 cm 2 and 1.35 × 10 13 /cc respectively with thethermal velocity v th kept at the standard value of 10 7 cm/s. Capture cross-section of charge carriers generally refers to the area where the probability that a charge carrier (such as an electron or a hole) will be captured by defects within the perovskite material is high.Other simulation parameters of the absorber layer like its thickness, bandgap, and electron affinity are also obtained from experimental data  [23] . These values are depicted in Table  S1  (Supplementary Table  1 ) AM 1.5 spectrum is made to incidence on the device and the simulated data is matched with the experimental values which are highlighted in the upcoming section. Keeping the absorber layer fixed, different electron transport layers (ETL) such as TiO 2 , ZnOS, Cd 0⋅5 Zn 0⋅5 S and hole transport layers (HTL) such as NiO, Cu 2 O, PEDOT:PSS are taken to analyze the performance of the top perovskite solar cell under standalone conditions. The energy band diagram of these charge transport layers has been shown in Fig.  2 . The electrical parameters of these layers used for simulation given in Tables  S2  and S3 (Supplementary Information) are obtained from already published research papers after an extensive literature survey  [25] [26] [27] [28] . It is well known that not only bulk defects but interfacial defects can also serve in important role in the performance evaluation of solar cell devices. Thus, to make our simulation more realistic interfacial defects have also been incorporated with a defect density of 10 10 /cm 3 . Neutral defects with distribution type single have been selected for the interface with an energy level at 0.6eV above the reference value. To understand the hysteresis behaviour of the device, iodine vacancies have also introduced at the interface and the role of these ionic vacancy concertation on HI (Hysteresis Index) have been analysed in the upcoming section. The absorber layer in combination with carrier transport layers that gives the best performance is  The filtered spectrum from the best performing top cell is then made to fall on the bottom silicon solar cell having HIT structure and the thickness of the absorber layer of the top and bottom cell is varied so that the current density matching condition can be achieved. The simulation parameters for the bottom cell is given in Table  S3 . To compute the filtered spectrum we have used the expression S(λ) = S 0 (λ).exp ( ∑ 3 i=1 -(α materiali (λ) * d materiali ) ) , where S 0 (λ) is the incoming AM 1.5 spectrum from the sun, α is the absorption coefficient of different layers(plotted in Fig.  3 ) and d denotes the material thickness. The internal SCAPS model has been used to calculate α for each material which is based on the formula sqrt(hv-Eg). A schematic representation of 2 T perovskite-silicon tandem cell is depicted in Fig.  4 . 
 Experimental validation for top cell The experimental validation of any simulation study with previously published data is critical. We modelled the identical device structure used by Cheng et al. in their experimental study to validate the performance of the perovskite top cell  [23] . The device under investigation has a p-i-n structure with PEDOT:PSS as a hole transport layer deposited on FTO-coated glass, GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0.94 SnI 2 Br as the absorber layer with an optical bandgap of 1.61eV, PCBM and C60 as electron transport layers, and BCP as the buffer layer. Fig.  5A  depicts the J-V characteristics of the device both experimental and simulation in the same graph. The experimental values show that the device gives an output efficiency of % with Voc of 0.64v, a fill factor of 72 %, and a current density of 15.16mA/cm2. The simulated results of the same device structure give an overall PCE of 6.95 %, Voc 0.635, FF 71.9 %, and Jsc of 15.23mA/cm2 while keeping the thickness of all the layers equal to that reported in the experimental work. Furthermore, Fig.  5B  showcases the striking resemblance between the experimental and simulated quantum efficiency (QE) plots, affirming the accuracy of the optical absorption coefficient models employed in our work. The remarkable agreement between experimental and simulated data in both the graphs not only validates the simulation parameters used but also underscores the significance of SCAPS 1D in the realm of perovskite solar cell research. 
 Selection of the best carrier transport layers Both ETL and HTL serve critical roles in a perovskite device, extracting and delivering charge carriers and regulating the development of perovskite thin film. Although the current density in the preceding experimental work is relatively good, the low values of Voc and FF lead the total PCE to be poor. (7 %) Selection of proper ETL and HTL can not only reduce interfacial recombination but also help to improve the fill factor by lowering the series resistance. In this section, absorber layer GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0 . 94 SnI 2 Br sandwiched between different ETL and HTL to form n-i-p structure have been analysed in terms of solar cell performance as shown in Fig.  6(A_D)  The thickness of the absorber layer is taken at 200 nm along with ETL and HTL at 50 nm and 200 nm respectively. From Fig.  6  it can be observed that the best device performance can be obtained when Cu 2 O and ZnOS is taken as the HTL and ETL (structure A) while the worst performance was seen for the combination of PEDOT:PSS and TiO (structure B). Fig.  7    as HTL and ZnOS as ETL gives a lower value of current density than that sandwiched between PEDOT:PSS and TiO 2 . A higher carrier recombination rate inside the absorber layer (200 nm thickness) can be the possible cause. However, the former set gives a much better device performance than the latter due to its larger fill factor and improved open circuit voltage. The fill factor heavily depends on the solar cell's series resistance. The absorber material is a p-type semiconductor, therefore extraction of holes will play an important role in determining the overall device performance. Since Cu 2 O has better mobility than PEDOT: PSS, the former has shown superior performance as an HTL layer with lower rates of carrier recombination (improved hole extraction) which ultimately causes the series resistance to decrease. There has been a substantial improvement in the device output performance if we compare the reference device (experimental work of Cheng et al.) and our best simulated device structure. Current Voltage (J_V) analysis often fail to paint the entire story behind this performance enhancement. In order to get into the fundamentals behind this Fig.  8A  depicts the Mott-Schottky or CV analysis of the best performing device in comparison to the reference.    
 The equation can be expressed as C -2 = 2 qεε 0 N D ( V -Vbi - KT q ) ( 4 ) Where C is the capacitance, V bi denotes the built-in potential, N D is the doping density, ε gives the permittivity of the material, q is the charge of an electron, T is the absolute temperature and K is the Boltzmann's constant. Higher built-in voltage denotes better junction strength facilitating higher charge separation and open circuit voltage. The simulated V bi of our best device is 1.4V in comparison to the experimental value of 0.637V obtained in the reference device which is consistent with the improvement in the Voc from 0.64V to 1.45V as we move from reference to best simulated device. Apart from Voc, Jsc and FF also showed remarkable improvement in our simulated device and the reason behind this improvement can be explained from IS (Impedance Spectroscopy) measurement graph depicted in Fig.  8B .The simulated IS data of the reference device showed a significant smaller semicircle in the Nyquist plot as compared to our simulated best device, indicating a lower charge recombination resistance  [26] . Higher the recombination resistance, higher will be the probability that an electron-hole pair once generated will travel to the electrons rather than recombining in the bulk or at the interfaces. Thus J-V along with C-V and C-f highlights and emphasizes the deep physics behind the performance enhancement of our device with respect to the reference. According to the Shockley-Quiesser limit, an absorber layer of 1.61eV bandgap is capable of reaching an efficiency of 31.22 % (in an ideal case with perfectly optimized carrier transport layers and no interfacial defect states)  [27] . Thus, it can be concluded that our best device structure FTO/ZnOs/Absorber/Cu 2 O is still not optimized at its full capacity and this optimization have been achieved in the upcoming section through an understanding of different layer thickness and defect density. 
 Thickness variation of different layers The absorber layer is the core of the solar cell's performance, receiving incoming solar photons and creating electron-hole pairs. As a result, the thickness of this layer is critical, especially in 2 terminal Tandem Solar Cells where current density matching between the top and bottom cells must be maintained. Thus, the effect of varying the thickness of the absorber layer from 50 nm to 2000 nm on PV performance has been investigated while keeping the Cu2O(HTL) and ZnOS(ETL) fixed at 50 nm and 200 nm, respectively. As illustrated in Fig.  9 , the device's current density increases significantly from 7.82mA/cm2 to 16.54mA/cm2 as the thickness is adjusted from 50 nm to 350 nm. The pace of this increase then slows and reaches a maximum of 19.27mA/ cm2 at a thickness of roughly 900 nm. The increase in current density with absorber layer thickness can be attributed to the fact that a thicker perovskite layer can absorb more incoming photons from the sun, resulting in a greater number of electron-hole pairs, which causes the current density to increase. On further increasing the thickness, there is a gradual decay in the current density and it becomes as low as 7.91mA/ cm2 at 2000 nm thickness. To understand this phenomenon Fig.  10A  depicts the plot between the recombination current and thickness variation of the absorber layer and it can be seen that after a thickness of about 900 nm there is a rapid increase in carrier recombination which brings down the current density values. The diffusion length of the charge carriers also plays a major role in carrier extraction. If the thickness of the absorber layer becomes larger than the diffusion length of the charge carriers, the carriers will start to recombine before reaching the respective electrodes. The decrease in fill factor with an increase in thickness is due to a  
 V0c+1 which is consistent with the above observation. Combining the three parameters, the device's overall efficiency increases from about 9.32 % to about 18.1 % as the thickness becomes 350 nm from 50 nm. After that the declining nature of the efficiency can be seen which drops to a mere 2.78 % as the thickness becomes 2000 nm. The carrier selective layers also play an important role in the overall functioning of the device, hence optimization of their thickness can bring improvement in solar cell performance. Fig.  11 a-d  shows the collective thickness variation of ETL from 1 nm to 50 nm and HTL from 50 nm to 600 nm and their effect on the top perovskite cell when the thickness of the absorber layer is kept at the optimum value of 350 nm. For a particular ETL thickness, the open circuit voltage remains almost constant with an increase in HTL thickness. For a 20 nm thin ETL, Voc varies from 1.432V to 1.434V as HTL thickness changes from 50 nm to 600 nm. Keeping HTL thickness fixed, Voc values drop slightly as ETL thickness is increased for example Voc changes from 1.45V to 1.43V as ETL thickness is changed from 1 nm to 50 nm keeping HTL fixed at 300 nm. Current density values improved from 16.37mA/cm2 to 16.89mA/ cm2 as the thickness of ETL and HTL is increased from 1 nm to 40 nm and 50 nm-500 nm respectively after which it got saturated. Out of all the PV parameters, Fill Factor has shown a significant change as the carrier layer thickness is tuned. FF increases from 66.64 % to 80.66 % for an ETL thickness variation from 1 nm to 10 nm (HTL fixed at 200 nm) which can be attributed to a decrease in series resistance, further highlighting the significance of ETL in electron extraction. After that this increase becomes slow and it saturates at a value of 83.89 % for an ETL of about 50 nm. For lower values of ETL(less than 5 nm) FF changes from 76.1 % to 77 % with HTL thickness variation from 50 nm to 500 nm and becomes constant afterward and for higher thickness of ETL(about 40 nm) the FF practically remains unchanged with the variation of HTL thickness. Combining all three parameters Fig.  11d  gives the PCE of the perovskite top cell under ETL and HTL thickness tuning. It can be observed that as ETL and HTL layer becomes thicker, the solar cell becomes more and more efficient. The maximum efficiency reaches 18.6 % as the thickness of the ETL and HTL are taken to be around 45 nm and 400 nm respectively and further increments in their thickness do not bring about any significant change in PCE. Thus, the best performing device with HTL 400 nm, absorber 350 nm and ETL 45 nm gives an optimized PCE of 18.60 % with an open circuit voltage of 1.44V and current density of 16.67mA/cm2. 
 Effect of defect density No matter how stringent the conditions are kept throughout the manufacture of any thin film, the generation of unwanted flaws or defects is always there. It is commonly acknowledged that the existence of flaws in the photoactive material can have a major impact on device performance. The defects may be one-dimensional (point defects) such as atomic vacancies, antisites, and interstitials, as well as multidimensional such as precipitates, grain boundaries and dislocations. Atomic vacancy occurs when an atom is missing from its lattice site. For example, Iodine vacancy is a very common defect that impact the performance of perovskite solar cell leading to hysteresis (explained in the subsequent section). These iodine vacancies are positively charged defect sites when empty and neutral on capturing electron. Both positive as well as negatively charged vacancies can act as trap sites for charge carriers, leading to non-radiative recombination and reduced device efficiency. Antisite defects involve the substitution of one type of atom for another in the crystal lattice and they can create energy levels within the bandgap, affecting charge carrier transport and recombination processes.Interstitial defects occur when an atom occupies an interstitial site within the crystal lattice. These defects can also act as trap sites for charge carriers, impacting device performance.Multi-dimensional defects are notorious for accelerating the degradation pathways for perovskite long term stability and can cause halide segregation severely impact the mobility of charged carriers  [29, 30] .Apart from the bulk absorber layer, defects can also be present inside the ETL material, HTL material, and the different interfaces formed in the device. Fig.  12A, B  shows the effect of bulk and interfacial(ETL/Absorber) point defect density on the PV parameters of the concerned device. The PV parameters drastically fall as the bulk and interfacial defect density(IDD) is increased. Current density decreases from 16.78 mA/ cm 2 to 0.15 mA/cm 2 as the bulk defect density is varied from 10 10 /cc to 10 18 /cc. This can be attributed to the fact that the Schockley-Hall Read recombination rate given by R SHR = np-n 2 i τp(n+ni)+τn(p+pi) increases with an increase in defect density. Here τ p and τ n respectively denotes the carrier lifetime for holes and electrons which is highly dependent on defect density through the well-known expression τ = 1 σV th Nt , where σ, V th and N t denotes carrier capture cross-section, carrier thermal velocity and the bulk defect density respectively. Greater number of defects leads to lowering of carrier lifetime which causes larger annihilation of electron and hole pairs through non-radiative recombination thereby lowering the current density. This phenomenon is depicted in Fig.  13A . Fig.  13B  highlights the charge collection efficiency (CCE) of the device with defect density at three different capture cross-sectional areas. CCE given by equation (1-τ τ ′ ) falls from 96.61 % to 21.17 % as the bulk defect density of the absorber layer is increased from 10 13 to 10 14 per cc    at a capture cross-sectionvalue of 1.5 × 10 -15 /cm 2 . For capture a cross section value of 9 × 10 -16 /cm 2 CCE drops from 98.36 % to 48.07 % with a similar variation of defect density. τ ′ is the carrier transport time which is very important parameter for perovskite solar cell determines how fast carriers are transported from the absorber to the carrier selective layers and ultimately to the electrodes. τ ′ = 2.35L D /L 2 where L D and L denotes the diffusion length and length of the absorber layer respectively. The Voc depends upon the splitting of the quasi-fermi level is also very sensitive to non-radiative recombination. It is given by the equation V oc = Eg q -kBT q ln ( γ l NCNv G ) where γ l is the Langevin recombination constant and G denotes the non-radiative recombination rate  [26] , dips to a low value of 0.915V from 1.49V as the defect density of the absorber layer is changed from 10 10 to 10 18 per cc. The FF varies from 80.84 % to 71.75 % as the defect density is increased from 10 10 to 10 14 per cc, after which it declines sharply to a value of 28.12 % as the defect becomes 10 18 per cc. Thus, the overall efficiency of the perovskite solar cell is greatly affected due to defect density of the absorber layer and PCE decreases from 20.28 % to 0.04 % with defect density variation from 10 10 to 10 18 per cc. Similar trend has also been observed for interfacial defects where the PCE drops from 18.46 % to 12.47 % as defects become 10 14 /cc and this becomes almost saturated afterward. Fill Factor and Voc also decreases first till the defect density becomes 10 15 /cc and then becomes almost constant to 62.69 % and 1.27V with further increase in IDD. Not only defect density but the position of the defect energy within the bandgap plays an equally important role in the photovoltaic performance of perovskite solar cells. Defects that are located deeper inside the bandgap perform as recombination centres which causes the recombination of electrons and holes with the release of phonons. These deep defects have a very high activation energy thus the trapped carriers have a larger probability to recombine with their opposite counterpart decreasing the device performance. On the other hand, defects that are located near the edges of valence and conduction bands are termed as shallow defects. They act more as trapping centres and there is a much larger probability that the trapped charges are further re-excited to their respective bands after getting a small amount of energy. Hence the performance of the solar cell is not that much compromised. Fig.  14  (A_D) demonstrates this phenomenon. For a fixed value of defect density, those defect states which are having energy near the valence band (0.2eV) or near the conduction band (1.4eV measured from the edge valence band) have lesser effect on the performance of solar cell as compared to those which are at the middle of bandgap. However, if the defect density is low(about 10 11 /cc or below), changing the defect energy causes minimalistic effect on the cell performance. In perovskite solar cells (PSCs), hysteresis phenomena in the currentvoltage (J-V) characteristics present a significant challenge, for their rapid commercialization. The prevailing limitations of software like SCAPS, where scan rate and direction cannot be varied, have hindered detailed investigations into hysteresis behaviour. Addressing this gap, we propose an alternative approach to simulate hysteresis in PSCs using SCAPS, overcoming these software constraints. Hysteresis primarily emerges from the accumulation of mobile ionic defects at the absorber interface with the charge carrier layer, impeding efficient carrier collection and modulating the local dipole moment of the device. As the scan direction reverses, the migration of these ionic charges shifts, accumulating at the opposite interface, thus altering the local electric field and creating a disparate environment within the device compared to the forward scan  [31, 32] . Consequently, hysteresis behaviour manifests in J-V curves, particularly in inadequately passivated devices. Our investigation focuses on iodine vacancies, acting as donor-type impurities, occupying energy levels within the bandgap of the absorber layer, ranging from 0.6eV to 1.4eV  [33] . During forward scans, we simulate the accumulation of these ionic defects at the absorber/electron transport layer (ETL) interface, while for reverse scans, they accumulate at the absorber/hole transport layer (HTL) interface, with defect concentrations varying from 10 10 /cc to 10 17 /cc. From Fig.  15A  and B , Hysteresis Index defined as H⋅I = [PCE(r) -PCE(f)]/PCE(r) varies from about 0.07 to 0.03 as the iodine vacancy concentration increases from 10 11 to 10 14 per cc. The J_V curve during the reverse scan showed a minimalistic change as compared to the forward scan and this gap widens as we go from lower to higher defect concentration. Supplementary Figs.  S4  and S5  shows the effect of iodine vacancy having same concentration but at different interfaces on the energy band diagram of the device. Accumulation of positive impurities at ETL/Absorber interface, makes the CBO offset more negative, which significantly lowers the activation energy (Ea) for electron recombination at the interface  [34] . Also, the splitting of fermi level at this interface decreases which directly impacts the open circuit voltage of the device. Similar effect is not observed at the HTL/Absorber interface. Thus,it can be concluded that as the scan direction reverses, the ionic defects accumulate at the other interface creating a different local electric field and the J_V curve retraces an alternative path thereby creating the so-called hysteresis.Additionally, Fig.  15C  demonstrates the synergistic impact of temperature and defect concentration on the H.I. At lower defect concentrations (e.g., 10 12 /cc), the H⋅I experiences marginal rise, ranging from 0.195 to 0.201 with increasing temperature from 300K to 350K. In contrast, at higher defect concentrations, the H⋅I escalates rapidly with temperature, reaching values between 0.42 and 0.48 for the same temperature range at a concentration of 10 16 /cc.As a result, it can be concluded that these iodine vacancies can be quite harmful in terms of device performance and through proper defect passivation techniques, using additives, anti-solvents, and proper interfacial engineering has been found helpful to restrict them up to permissible limits. Considering the permissible limit of about 10 12 /cc, the optimized top perovskite solar cell gave an output efficiency of 18.58 % accompanied by an open circuit voltage of 1.43V, fill factor 77.85 % and current density of 16.65 mA/cm 2 which is a significant improvement in the field of single junction wide bandgap lead free perovskite solar cell. 
 Perovskite-HIT tandem solar cell After the analysis of the top cell, this section is dedicated to the complete analysis of Tandem Cell by taking HIT solar cell as the bottom sub-cell. HIT solar cell have already reached efficiencies that no other silicon cell structure could reach hence they are rapidly commercialized as single junction cells. The superior passivation properties of the buffer layers, notably in isolating the highly recombination-active metallic contacts from the absorber, are largely responsible for the high efficiency of heterojunction solar cells. Although intrinsic buffer layers are functionally non-conductive, charge carriers can diffuse through due to their generally thin thickness of less than 10 nm. Because the absorption coefficient is somewhat dependent on band gap, it is beneficial for the passivating layer to have a greater band gap to avoid parasitic absorption of photons. Fig.  16A  shows the performance of a HIT solar cell where the thickness of all the layers is taken as per the industrial standard while 16 B gives the QE plot. The single junction HIT cell gives an output efficiency of 20.18 % with a current density, fill factor, and open circuit voltage of 28.35 mA/ cm 2 , 89.83 % and 0.81V respectively. A tandem solar cell operates with its top and bottom cells connected in series, ensuring uniform current flow while the overall voltage output combines the Voc of both cells. A crucial component in this setup is a low-resistance tunnel or recombination layer situated between the subcells. In our analysis, we consider an ideal, lossless recombination layer. To evaluate the tandem cell's performance, we expose the top perovskite solar cell to the AM 1.5 spectrum (Fig.  17A ). Maintaining the thickness of other layers constant, we vary the thickness of the perovskite absorber layer from 50 nm to 500 nm, producing distinct filtered spectra for each thickness (Fig.  17B ) based on simulated absorption coefficients of materials (Fig.  3 ). The thickness and bandgap of the top absorber layer significantly influence the resulting filtered spectrum. As the top layer's thickness increases, the power associated with the filtered spectrum initially decreases before reaching a saturation point. The filtered spectrum aligns with the AM 1.5 spectrum around 775 nm, corresponding to a top cell bandgap of approximately 1.6 eV. Each filtered spectrum is then directed onto the bottom cell, with the thickness of the bottom cell adjusted from 10 μm to 200 μm to match the current output of the top cell. Insufficient thickness in the top cell leads to reduced Fig.  17 . A) AM 1.5 spectrum and B) Filtered spectrum from the top cell with absorber layer varied from 50 nm to 500 nm in steps of 50 nm. Fig.  18 . Diagram depicting the necessary thickness of the top and bottom cell for current density matching. The bottom cell was illuminated with the filtered spectrum coming from the top cell and the thickness of both the cells were varied to obtain the optimum value of "matched current". current output, limiting the overall device efficiency due to series current flow constraints. Conversely, excessive thickness in the top cell restricts photon penetration to the bottom cell, affecting the bottom cell's current density (Jsc) and consequently, the tandem cell's efficiency  [35] . From Fig.  18  it can be inferred that a top cell of about 415 nm thick and a bottom cell of 184um thick drives the same current throughout the entire device.The tandem cell gives an overall efficiency of 32.12 % with a current density of 17.63 mA/cm 2 ,fill factor of 83.2 % and open circuit voltage of 2.19V as calculated from the J-V curve shown in Fig.  19A . The standalone performance of the top cell, bottom cell(under filtered spectrum) and tandem cell is given in Table  2 . To assess the solar cell's performance under outdoor conditions, the device was exposed to a range of temperatures, typically spanning from 300K to 325K. Through this investigation, it was observed that the efficiency of the solar cell experiences a reduction of approximately 0.052 % for every 1 K increase in temperature (refer to). This decline in efficiency can be attributed to a gradual decrease in Voc (open-circuit voltage) as the temperature rises. 
 Conclusion In a nutshell we have embarked on a journey to explore the potential of lead-free tin-based perovskite absorber layers as viable candidates for tandem solar cell applications. Building upon the experimental work of Cheng et al., which introduced GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0.94 SnI 2 Br as a promising absorber material, we carefully verified its performance using SCAPS 1D simulations. We further evaluated the efficacy of this material in tandem configuration with silicon HIT cells, aiming to achieve current matching and surpass the Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) limit.Our investigations revealed the critical role of carrier transport layers and defect engineering in optimizing device performance. By fine-tuning the thickness of various layers and addressing defects within the device, we gained valuable insights into enhancing charge carrier dynamics and mitigating performance-limiting factors. Notably, defects emerged as significant contributors to device inefficiencies, underscoring the importance of defect passivation strategies in fabrication processes. Moreover, our comprehensive analysis extended beyond conventional approaches, incorporating impedance spectroscopy (IS) measurements, including capacitance-voltage (CV) and capacitance-frequency (CF) analyses, alongside traditional current density-voltage (JV) curves. This holistic approach provided deeper insights into device physics, offering a more nuanced understanding of device behaviour and performance characteristics.Furthermore, our study delved into the phenomenon of hysteresis in perovskite solar cells, highlighting the negative impact of ion migration during forward and reverse scans. By elucidating the underlying mechanisms of hysteresis and its implications on device performance, we contribute to the growing body of knowledge aimed at addressing stability and reliability challenges in perovskite-based photovoltaics.The successful integration of the optimized tin-based perovskite top cell with silicon bottom cells yielded a 2-terminal tandem solar cell that surpassed the S-Q limit, achieving an impressive output efficiency of 32.12 %. This underscores the potential of lead-free perovskite materials in tandem configurations to deliver high-performance, environmentally friendly solar cell technologies. 
 CRediT authorship contribution statement Snehal Mondal: Software, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Data curation. Ashmita Jain: Data curation. Santanu Maity: Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Resources, Formal analysis. 
 Declaration of competing interest All of the authors have agreed to the study, and it has been established that it is not currently being considered for publication elsewhere. The study has also received tacit or explicit approval from the pertinent authorities in the places where the work was done. Additionally, submission states that if accepted, it will not be published in the same form elsewhere, in either English or any other language, without the Publisher's prior written consent. Fig.  19 . A) J-V curve of the bottom, top, and tandem cell for current matching condition. The overall tandem cell gives a PCE of 32.12 %. B) The variation of the PCE of the solar cell with temperature. 
 Table 2 Performance analysis of the Top Cell(under standard AM 1.5 solar spectrum), Bottom Cell(under filtered spectrum) and Tandem Cell when the same current density flows in all of them. The thickness of the absorber layer has also been provided.  Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. Schematic diagram representing A) 2 T and B) 4 T tandem solar cells. The tunnel junction plays a major role in 2 T tandem to achieve the current matching criteria. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. The energy level alignment of the absorber layer with respect to different carrier transport layers used in the simulation. ETL 1, ETL 2 and ETL 3 denotes TiO 2 , ZnOS and Cd 0⋅5 Zn 0⋅5 S respectively while HTL 1, HTL 2 and HTL 3 denotes NiO, Cu 2 O and PEDOT:PSS respectively. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. The absorber coefficient of different materials used in this simulation plotted against wavelength in nm. The internal SCAPS 1D model have been used for these plots. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. 2 T tandem solar cell where the top sub cell is a perovskite-based n-i-p structure while the bottom is a silicon HIT cell. A thin layer of ITO is deposited between the two sub cells. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. Comparison between the experimental and simulation A) J-V graph and B) QE curve, of the device stack FTO/PEDOT:PSS/GA 0.06 (FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 ) 0 . 94 SnI 2 Br/ PCBM/C 60 /Ag. The low offset between the two curves proves that the simulation parameters are quite accurate with the experimental values. 
 Fig. 6 . 6 Fig. 6. Photovoltaic parameters of the device A) Current Density(Jsc), B) Open Circuit Voltage(Voc), C) Fill Factor(FF), D) Efficiency etc. when different combinations of carrier transport layers were used. A: Cu 2 O(HTL)_ZnOS(ETL), B: NiO(HTL)_ZnOS(ETL), C: PEDOT:PSS(HTL)_ZnOS(ETL), D: PEDOT:PSS(HTL)_TiO 2 (ETL), E: PEDOT:PSS(HTL)_Cd 0⋅5 Zn 0⋅5 S(ETL), F:NiO(HTL)_ Cd 0⋅5 Zn 0⋅5 S(ETL), G:NiO(HTL)_TiO 2 (ETL), H:Cu 2 O(HTL)_TiO 2 (ETL), I: Cu 2 O(HTL)_Cd 0⋅5 Zn 0⋅5 S(ETL). 
 Fig. 7 . 7 Fig. 7. Recombination rates inside the device at different positions for the best and worst performing device structures. 
 Fig. 8 . 8 Fig. 8. A) C-V analysis of two devices i.e. experimental data from Cheng's work and simulated data of our best performing device. B) C-f analysis of reference vs best device(data obtained from software simulation). 
 Fig. 9 .Fig. 10 . 910 Fig. 9. Effect of absorber thickness variation on PV parameters. The x-axis denotes the absorber thickness in micro meter while four different y-axes are used to denote the PV parameters. The highest efficiency was achieved for an absorber layer of about 350 nm thick. 
 Fig. 11 . 11 Fig. 11. Contour plot denoting the effect of variation of ETL and HTL thickness on PV parameters-A) Voc, B) Jsc, C)FF, D)Efficiency. 
 Fig. 12 . 12 Fig. 12. The effect of defect density on PV parameters-A) Bulk Defect,B) Interfacial Defect(ETL/Bulk) Neutral defects are chosen at the energy level of 0.6eV with respect to the edge of the valence band. 
 Fig. 13 . 13 Fig. 13. Effect of bulk defect density on A) SHR recombination within the device and B) charge collection efficiency of the Cell at different capture cross-section area. 
 Fig. 14 . 14 Fig. 14. Effect of Defect Energy on PV parameters A) Voc, B) FF, C) Jsc, D)ETA at three different values of Defect Density (10 11 /cc, 10 12 /cc, and 10 13 /cc) Deep defects significantly dwindles the performance of solar cell. 
 Fig. 15 . 15 Fig. 15. Hysteresis plot of the device at two different defect concentration. A) 10 11 /cc and B) 10 14 /cc. C) Contour plot showing the combined effect of temperature and concentration of iodine vacancy on the H⋅I of the device. 
 Fig. 16 . 16 Fig. 16. Performance of Silicon HIT solar cell under AM 1.5 Spectrum in Standalone condition A) J-V curve and B) QE vs Wavelength. The P and I-Amorphous layers are taken 3 nm while N-Amorphous layer is taken 6 nm. 
 
 
 Table 1 1 Major contribution in Perovskite-Silicon Tandem has been highlighted in the table where the bottom cell is a silicon solar cell. Year Perovskite Top Bandgap (eV) Matched Jsc(mA/cm 2 ) Efficiency(%) of the Overall Device Ref Absorber Layer 2015 FAMAPbI 3-x Br x 1.62 14 18 [8] 2016 MAPbI 3 1.58 16.4 21.2 [9] 2017 FA 0.83 Cs 0⋅17 Pb(Br 0⋅17 I 0.83 ) 3 1.63 18.1 23.6 [10] 2018 CsRbFAMAPbI 3-x Br x 1.62 17.8 24.5 [11] 2019 Cs 0.05 (FA 0.87 MA 0.13 ) 0.95 PbI 3-x Br x 1.64 19.02 25.4 [12] 2020 FA 0.78 Cs 0⋅22 Pb(I 0⋅82 Br 0⋅15 Cl 0.03 ) 3 1.67 19.1 27 [13] 2022 Cs 0.05 (FA 0.79 MA 0.21 ) 0.95 Pb(I 0⋅79 Br 0.21 ) 3 1.68 19.56 29.80 [14]
