Paper #: 3649_2
Title: Voltage-Dependent Photoluminescence and How It Correlates with the Fill Factor and Open-Circuit Voltage in Perovskite Solar Cells
Optimizing the photoluminescence (PL) yield of a solar cell has long been recognized as a key principle to maximize the power conversion efficiency. While PL measurements are routinely applied to perovskite films and solar cells under opencircuit conditions (V OC ), it remains unclear how the emission depends on the applied voltage. Here, we performed PL(V) measurements on perovskite cells with different hole transport layer thicknesses and doping concentrations, resulting in remarkably different fill factors (FFs). The results reveal that PL(V) mirrors the current-voltage (JV) characteristics in the power-generating regime, which highlights an interesting correlation between radiative and nonradiative recombination losses. In particular, high FF devices show a rapid quenching of PL(V) from open-circuit to the maximum power point. We conclude that, while the PL has to be maximized at V OC , at lower biases < V OC , the PL must be rapidly quenched as charges need to be extracted prior to recombination.
W ithin only 10 years of development, organic- inorganic perovskite solar cells caught up with their inorganic counterparts in terms of power conversion efficiency (PCE of 25.2%), 1 overpassing the best thin-film and multicrystalline silicon solar cells while getting close to the best monocrystalline silicon cells (26.7%).  2, 3  However, this is not the end of the road as recent models predict a fundamental efficiency limit of above 30% even for single-junction perovskite cells.  4  Such efficiencies may be envisaged through further optimization of the charge transport layers (TLs) and reduction of nonradiative defect recombination at the interfaces and/or grain boundaries. Moreover, perovskites are highly relevant for a range of tandem applications, promising even higher performances, for example, all-perovskite tandem cells (reaching 24.8%),  5  four-terminal or monolithic tandem cells with silicon  6  (up to 28%) 1 or in combination with CIGS (23.3%).  7  Hence, understanding the mechanism and spatial location of the nonradiative losses remains an important task for the community.  8  In the ideal case, the internal quasi-Fermi level splitting (QFLS) in the perovskite absorber is equal to the external voltage and only limited by radiative recombination in the bulk. Measurement of the QFLS in the full device as a function of the external voltage will therefore provide information to which extent the situation differs from the ideal case. In this regard, photoluminescence (PL) measurements are becoming a popular tool in the community as they allow one to quantify the QFLS or the internal voltage in the neat perovskite, perovskite/TL stacks, or even complete solar cells.  [9] [10] [11] [12]  This approach has been used to assess the quality of the neat material and recombination at interfaces and/or the metal contacts, while hyperspectral PL imaging is further beneficial when aiming to identify spatial inhomogeneities or device imperfections.  13, 14  Moreover, intensity-dependent QFLS measurements have been recently performed to provide, for instance, access to the ideality factor of individual perovskite/TL junctions of the cell.  9, 15  These studies have provided solid evidence regarding the limiting components of the cell as the emitted PL from an (unconnected) sample under open-circuit conditions (V OC ) is only reduced by nonradiative recombination processes that lower the QFLS throughout the stack. In fact, the absolute intensity of the emitted PL yield (ϕ PL ), or equivalently the radiative recombination current density (J rad = ϕ PL /e), depends logarithmically on the QFLS (μ) in the junction.  [9] [10] [11] [12]   ϕ μ = = e J J k T exp( / ) PL rad 0,rad B (1) where J 0,rad is the radiative thermal recombination current density in the dark (see Supplementary Note 1 for further details and assumptions). Equation 1 shows that a low PL yield always corresponds to a low internal voltage or QFLS. We note that in the perovskite literature it is common to find that under V OC conditions PL quenching is a desirable property of a TL as it would imply efficient charge transfer and extraction from the perovskite to the TLs.  16, 17  This misconception probably has its origin from organic solar cell research where the quenching of the PL in bulk-heterojunction blends meant efficient exciton dissociation.  18  However, in perovskites, where excitons usually dissociate immediately after photogeneration at room temperature,  19, 20  this is irrelevant, and the subsequent quenching of radiative recombination always corresponds to a lower QFLS. Here, it is interesting to note that, even at V OC , the cell might not be in a generation-recombination equilibrium at every point in the device. For example, nonradiative recombination at the interface between the perovskite and the TL will cause a flow of electrons and holes in the active layer toward this interface, but these currents will cancel each other out, resulting in an external current of 0 at V OC . Therefore, when considering two perovskite/TL films where the TLs exhibit identical recombination but different extraction properties, it may still be that the superior extraction capability of one TL leads to a stronger PL quenching. However, this only means that the faster extraction enhances the nonradiative recombination loss in a particular region of the sample, which is detrimental for the V OC . Notwithstanding these points, it is important to emphasize that the above considerations are valid only under open-circuit conditions. In the power-generating regime below the V OC , the situation is expected to be markedly different as ideally, photogenerated charges are extracted out of the perovskite layer prior to recombination. Consequently, in this regime, the PL should be rapidly quenched as the free charge carrier population (which leads to the PL emission) should be as low as possible to avoid any type of recombination. However, until today, PL measurements were usually limited to the study of cells and/or films under opencircuit conditions. In this work, we extended the framework of the PL-QFLS methodology by studying the bias dependence of the PL on triple-cation-based perovskite solar cells with varying hole transport layer (HTL) thicknesses and amount of F4TCNQ doping, while the results are also generalized to n-i-p cells with C 60 and P3HT as electron and hole transport layers (ETL/HTL), respectively. We demonstrate that the voltage dependence of the PL mirrors the shape of current density vs voltage (JV) characteristics, highlighting the correlation between radiative and nonradiative recombination losses. A figure of merit is proposed that is based on the quenching factor of the ϕ PL from open-circuit to the maximum power point (V mp or MPP) as a sensitive measure for the extraction capability and the fill factor (FF) of the cell. ) and JV curves measured on p-i-n type cells with a PTAA bottom TL with variable thickness. While the PL should be maximized at V OC , in forward bias, charges must be swiftly extracted from the device and the PL be rapidly quenched. The graph highlights the correlation between the JV curve, which is shaped through nonradiative losses, and the radiative recombination loss (J rad (V) = eϕ PL (V)). (b) Voltage-dependent PL spectra of the cell with 8 nm PTAA. (c) QFLS as a function of external applied voltage in the devices with different PTAA layer thicknesses highlighting a significant internal voltage in the perovskite layer at low applied voltages potentially causing voltage-independent short-circuit current losses. 
 ACS Energy Letters 
 Letter The cells studied in this work are characterized by a remarkably different FF, as highlighted in a previous study, due to the charge transport limitation imposed by the low-mobility PTAA layer.  21, 22  The voltage-dependent PL yield of the devices and the corresponding JV-curves are shown in Figure  1a , while Figure  1b  exemplifies the original PL spectra from 0 to 1.4 V applied for the cell with the thinnest PTAA layer (8 nm). We note that all measured devices exhibit a similar V OC irrespective of the HTL thickness/doping and show a similar PL intensity under V OC conditions, as expected from eq 1. Importantly, the PL emission correlates well with the FF of the devices, that is, the lower the emission in the power-generating regime, the higher the FF. As such, the device with the 85 nm thick PTAA layer has already a considerable emission at low biases due to significant bimolecular recombination of accumulated charges within the active layer.  21, 22  For this device, charge extraction is so inefficient that the charge carrier density in the active layer remains essentially close to the situation at open-circuit conditions even at comparatively low applied biases. The behavior of the cell with the thick PTAA layer is in sharp contrast to the device with the thin or doped PTAA TL where the PL emission is comparatively low at the MPP. This effect can be partially understood considering the Shockley equation with an effective transport resistance (R tr ), J L = -J G + J 0 [exp(q(V appl -J L R tr )/k B T)-1], where J L , J G , and J 0 are the light, generation, and dark saturation currents, respectively. The resistance of the TL, R tr , leads to a higher internal voltage across the active layer than externally applied (V appl ) and consequently to more recombination losses.  23, 24  This is further shown in Figure  1c , where we quantified the QFLS or the internal voltage in the perovskite as a function of bias voltage using the voltage-dependent PL. This demonstrates that it is only the device with the very thin PTAA layer that obeys the Shockley-Queisser condition QFLS = qV OC at a bias close to V OC . It is also clear that all cells exhibit a large internal voltage that saturates above 1 V when decreasing the applied voltage to 0 V. We note that this may indicate the presence of small, unconnected regions in the volume of the active pixel, which could potentially dominate the emission at low biases. Notably, this may also explain the small voltageindependent short-circuit current losses in our devices and more generally charge collection losses at 0 V that are quite often observed in perovskite solar cells.  25  While this observation will require more high-resolution PL measurements and analysis in the future, in this work, we aim at studying the emission at applied voltages above the QFLS saturation. To describe the experiments more quantitatively, we performed drift-diffusion simulations using the open-source software SCPAS.  26  The simulations include several important previously measured material and device parameters, such as the carrier mobilities in the layers,  22, 27  interfacial and bulk lifetimes,  12  energy levels,  8  as well as the recombination rate constants in the perovskite and density of states in the perovskite.  28  The simulation parameters are shown in Table  S1 . For example, using the experimentally obtained values for the interface recombination velocity (S = 200 cm/s at the HTL/perovskite interface and S = 2000 cm/s at the perovskite/ETL interface) and the bulk lifetime (∼500 ns),  12  we can well reproduce the ideality factor of the optimized cells   1a . (b) Exemplified band diagrams of a device with a thin (8 nm) and a thick (85 nm) TL at an applied voltage of 0.5 V. The considerable built-in voltage drop over the thick, resistive PTAA layer (85 nm) leads to flat energy bands in the perovskite layer at quite low applied voltages. As shown in panel (c), this causes more charge accumulation in the active layer (hence more PL) but also leads to a higher concentration of minority carriers at the interfaces (i.e., holes as the perovskite/ETL interface). (d) Resulting voltage-dependent recombination currents in p-i-n type perovskite solar cells with a thick (85 nm) and a thin (8 nm) PTAA layer. The reason for the reduced FF in the cell with the thick PTAA layer is the increased interfacial recombination current at the perovskite/ETL interface (red lines), which happens at lower applied voltages due to the resistive TL and the reduced potential drop across the perovskite. For example, at an applied voltage of 0.5 V, the interfacial recombination current is ∼350 times larger in the cell with the thick PTAA layer than that in the cell with the thin layer. with the 8 nm thick PTAA layer as well as the experimentally measured recombination currents in the neat perovskite and the interfaces under open-circuit conditions (Figure  S1 ). We note that the recombination currents were obtained using steady-state PL/QFLS measurements.  8  Figure  2a  shows the results of the drift diffusion simulations, which can well reproduce the observed experimental dependence of J rad and J L on the applied voltage in a linear representation. Figure  2b  exemplifies the band diagrams of a cell with a thick (85 nm) and thin (8 nm) TL at V appl = 0.5 V, which shows that a large fraction of the remaining built-in voltage drops across the thick PTAA layer, reducing the internal field across the perovskite layer. Figure  2c  shows that this leads to a higher charge carrier density in the active layer but also a higher minority carrier density at the interfaces. This, in turn, accelerates the nonradiative interfacial recombination losses, as shown in Figure  2d , and explains the observed correlation between the radiative and nonradiative losses in the power-generating JV regime. Considering again the similarity of the voltage-dependent PL in Figure  1a  and the corresponding JV curves, which are shaped by the total recombination current (J L = -J G + J R,tot ), suggests that J rad and J R,tot are related. In order to directly compare J rad (V) and J R,tot (V), we shift the voltage-dependent PL data shown in Figure  1a  into the fourth quadrant by simply subtracting the radiative recombination current at V OC from ϕ PL (V), i.e., ϕ ϕ ϕ ̃= - e V e V e ( ) ( ) V PL PL PL, OC . This effectively creates a pseudo-JV curve, ϕ ̃V ( ) 
 PL , that is limited only by radiative recombination but exhibits the same V OC as that in the actual JV measurement. The pseudo-and the actual JV curves normalized to the current at 0 V are shown in Figure  3a . In order to quantitatively correlate ϕ ̃V ( ) PL and the JV curve, we express the FF of the pseudo-JV curve ( ∼ FF PL ) in analogy with the common expression of the FF [FF = (J mp /J SC ) •(V mp / V OC )] ϕ ϕ ϕ ∼ = ̃• = - J e V V e e V V FF ( / ) ( / ) (1 / )( / ) V V V PL mp PL, mp OC PL, PL, mp OC OC mp OC (2) Note that the terms in brackets represent the normalized current of photogenerated charges surviving radiative recombination at V mp (analogous to J mp /J SC in a normal JV curve). In Figure  3b , we then plot the actual FF versus ∼ FF PL , which highlights the correlation between the radiative and nonradiative losses in the power generating JV regime. Moreover, this shows that ∼ FF PL = (1eϕ PL,V mp /eϕ PL,V OC )(V mp /V OC ) may also be used as a figure of merit (FOM) to predict the FF of a perovskite solar cell from the quenching ratio of the PL from V OC to MPP conditions (this is exemplified in Figure  1a  for the cell with the thick PTAA layer). We further note that a corresponding analysis and plot for the P3HT-based n-i-p type cells is shown in the Figure  S2 . Overall, this analysis demonstrates that high FFs can only be achieved if the PL emission from the active layer is rapidly reduced when decreasing the external voltage below V OC . We also note that the voltage-dependent PL data was taken at a scan rate of 5-10 mV/s (Supplementary Methods) under which the cells studied herein exhibit no relevant hysteresis in the powergenerating JV regime (Figure  S3 ). Therefore, the correlation between the PL(V) and the JV curve is not influenced by the motion of ions in our cells. However, we note that any hysteresis in the JV scan is expected to produce a similar hysteresis in J rad . Finally, as an outlook, we anticipate that in the near future, precise measurements and modeling of biasdependent PL and QFLS will provide important insights into the carrier density in the active layer and, for example, the built-in voltage drop across the perovskite layer under shortcircuit conditions. In summary, in this Letter, we have discussed why the PL emission from a perovskite cell or a perovskite/TL junction ) of the PTAA-based p-i-n type cells shown in Figure  1a . The pseudo-JV curves were obtained by subtracting the PL yield at open-circuit conditions (ϕ PL,V OC ) from the bias-dependent photoluminescence PL(V). The curves represent hypothetical JV curves that are impacted by only radiative recombination but with the same V OC as the actual JV curves, i.e., J L = -J rad,V OC + J rad (V). (b) Device FF vs the proposed FOM from the voltage-dependent PL (1 minus the PL quenching ratio from V OC to V mp times V mp /V OC ). The PL at V mp and V OC was taken as indicated by the lines in Figure  1a . The graph underlines the correlation between radiative and nonradiative recombination losses in the power-generating JV regime. should be maximized by all means under open-circuit conditions yet minimized in the power-generating JV regime as the charge carrier density in the active layer should be as low as possible to guarantee a low recombination rate. As such, we demonstrated that devices with high FFs stand out by a rapid quenching of the PL when moving from the V OC to the MPP. Following this line of argument, we proposed a FOM for the FF that is based on quenching of the PL under MPP conditions with respect to the PL under open-circuit. The conclusions were validated for two types of perovskite solar cells with PCEs of up to 20%. Moreover, we found that most devices exhibited a saturated high internal QFLS (1 eV) at low applied voltages (Figure  1c ), which could be one reason for the J SC being sometimes lower than expected for a given band gap considering realistic reflection/parasitic absorption losses. We anticipate that high-precision voltage-dependent PL measurements will provide further insights into the electrostatic potential and charge carrier distribution in perovskite solar cells in the near future. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT 
 * S Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.9b02262. Methods section, a table with simulation parameters, a fit of simulations to several experimental data (intensitydependent V OC and nonradiative recombination currents), PL(V)/JV analysis of n-i-p type cells with C 60 and P3HT as charge transport layers, and hysteresis scans of the cells shown in the main text (PDF) Figure 1 . 1 Figure1. (a) Voltage-dependent PL yield (ϕ PL (V)) and JV curves measured on p-i-n type cells with a PTAA bottom TL with variable thickness. While the PL should be maximized at V OC , in forward bias, charges must be swiftly extracted from the device and the PL be rapidly quenched. The graph highlights the correlation between the JV curve, which is shaped through nonradiative losses, and the radiative recombination loss (J rad (V) = eϕ PL (V)). (b) Voltage-dependent PL spectra of the cell with 8 nm PTAA. (c) QFLS as a function of external applied voltage in the devices with different PTAA layer thicknesses highlighting a significant internal voltage in the perovskite layer at low applied voltages potentially causing voltage-independent short-circuit current losses. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) Numerically simulated radiative recombination current (eϕ PL (V)) and corresponding JV curves in analogy to the experimental results in Figure1a. (b) Exemplified band diagrams of a device with a thin (8 nm) and a thick (85 nm) TL at an applied voltage of 0.5 V. The considerable built-in voltage drop over the thick, resistive PTAA layer (85 nm) leads to flat energy bands in the perovskite layer at quite low applied voltages. As shown in panel (c), this causes more charge accumulation in the active layer (hence more PL) but also leads to a higher concentration of minority carriers at the interfaces (i.e., holes as the perovskite/ETL interface). (d) Resulting voltage-dependent recombination currents in p-i-n type perovskite solar cells with a thick (85 nm) and a thin (8 nm) PTAA layer. The reason for the reduced FF in the cell with the thick PTAA layer is the increased interfacial recombination current at the perovskite/ETL interface (red lines), which happens at lower applied voltages due to the resistive TL and the reduced potential drop across the perovskite. For example, at an applied voltage of 0.5 V, the interfacial recombination current is ∼350 times larger in the cell with the thick PTAA layer than that in the cell with the thin layer. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a) Normalized JV and pseudo-JV curves (ϕ ̃V ( ) PL 
			 Downloaded via UNIV GRONINGEN on January 7, 2020 at 10:12:53 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.
Paper #: 3649_3
Title: High efficiency semitransparent perovskite solar cells containing 2D nanopore arrays deposited in a single step
Semitransparent perovskite solar cells (STPSCs) continue to attract enormous interest because of their potential to provide low-cost renewable energy for building and automotive applications. Whilst many studies have shown that small molecule additives can improve STPSC properties, here we use relatively colossal poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) microgel particles (MGs) as polymer colloid spongelike additives for the first time. Uniquely, these MGs have an inherent tendency to form highly ordered 2D non-close-packed particle arrays when deposited. Remarkably, this morphology is transcribed to the perovskite layer in the form of 2D non-close-packed nanopore arrays. The nanopores contain shunt-blocking MGs. The perovskite/MG-based STPSCs devices achieve a champion power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 11.64% for a device average visible transmittance (AVT) of 25.3%. The average light utilization efficiency (LUE) for the optimum system is 2.60% which is much higher than that for the MG-free control system and is larger than the 2.50% threshold that is required, in principle, for application. The MGs bind to the Pb 2+ ions and passivate the perovskite film. Finite difference time domain (FDTD) simulation data show that the MGs increase the AVTs of the films compared to uniform MG-free films. The MGs are proposed to act as nanoscale optical windows. Our new approach to preparing STPSCs delivers perovskite films containing 2D nanopore arrays in a single step that provide improved PCEs and AVTs and may accelerate future STPSC applications.
INTRODUCTION Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) are potential future candidates to replace the silicon-based solar cells that currently lead the solar cell market  [1] [2] [3] [4]  . For PSCs a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 3.81% in 2009  5  increased in just over a decade to reach 25.5% in 2020  6  . This rapid improvement is one reason why PSCs continue to attract great attention  [7] [8] [9] [10] [11]  . The need for semitransparent solar cells is rising due to their ability to contribute to building-integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) applications, tandem solar cells and wearable electronics  [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17]  . Similar to all semitransparent solar cells, the performance of semitransparent perovskite solar cells (STPSCs) involves a trade-off between the PCE and transmission of light. Researchers have increased their attention to STPSCs due to their ability to be utilized as power-generating windows, transparent roofs and facades  2, 14, [18] [19] [20]  . For such applications the device average visible transmittance (AVT) should be ≥ 25%  14, [21] [22] [23]  ; whilst the light utilization efficiency (LUE = AVT x PCE) should be greater than 2.5%  24  . The aim of the present study is to investigate new STPSCs prepared with colloidal size additives that spontaneously form 2 D arrays within perovskite films and improve both device PCE and AVT. The PCEs of STPSCs have continued to improve as the processing and formulation approaches have evolved  2, [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30]  . In a seminal study, Eperon et al. reported neutral-colored STPSCs using a micro-island approach which utilized spatial segmentation to fully transmit or absorb the incident light  26  . However, most reported studies of STPSCs have involved non-wavelength-selective devices  15, 31, 32  . Such devices generate charge by broad absorption of the spectrum and often appear red-brown,  15, [31] [32] [33]  which may limit potential applications as power generating windows  24  . Bag and Durstock reported an improved film quality for a planar STPSC architecture using thiourea as an additive. Those devices exhibited a PCE of 8.2% and an AVT of 34%  33  . Gaspera et al. reported a PCE of 5.3% with an AVT  34  of 31% by applying a dielectric/metal/dielectric (DMD) as a semitransparent top electrode and reducing the perovskite thickness. Lee et al. prepared MAPI-based STPSCs with Cu as a top electrode and reported a PCE of 11.95% with an AVT of ~ 20%  35  . Additives that improve the properties of STPSCs are important for their continued development and eventual deployment. The overwhelming majority of such additives for STPSC studies to date are small molecules (e.g., thiourea or CsBr)  33, 36  or linear polymers (e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone)  32  . Whilst such additives propelled the PCEs of the devices to higher levels there remains the question of where the additives actually reside. Unfortunately, these small additives are often too small to directly visualize using electron microscopy. Han et al. used high-resolution TEM to assert that linear poly(propylene carbonate) resides at the perovskite grain boundaries for their perovskite-polymer composites  37  . Particulate additives that are of colloidal scale offer an interesting alternative because inter-particle interactions can compete with perovskite crystallization during co-deposition of the photoactive layer. This has potential to generate new types mesoscopic order within PSCs. In this study we demonstrate the use of self-organising colloidal sponges (i.e., microgels, (MGs)) that direct formation of 2D nanopores within new STPSCs which is achieved using one step deposition. MGs are crosslinked polymer colloids in the size range 10 -1000 nm that swell in a thermodynamically good solvent  38, 39  . Poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNP) MG is the most famous class of MG and was discovered more than 35 years ago  40  . These MGs are temperature-responsive in water and exhibit a volume phase transition temperature (VPTT) at ~ 32 °C. They have been extensively studied in water  [41] [42] [43]  and as biomaterials  44  , but have rarely been studied in non-aqueous solvents. MGs have a remarkably strong tendency to remain dispersed without aggregating  38  when in the swollen state. This provides a unique pathway to depositing isolated particles with very high specific surface areas within perovskite films. Recently, we showed that poly(N-vinyl formamide-co-2-(N-vinylformamido) ethyl ether) (PNVF-NVEE) MGs included in PSCs flattened and provided an insulating "plug" that prevented shunting between the electron-and hole-transport layers  45  . We also reported semi-transparent perovskite/PNVF-NVEE MG thin-films. However, STPSCs were not prepared in that study  45  . We also used PNP MGs as a sacrificial pore-forming agent to increase the porosity of meso-TiO2 for PSCs  46  . The present study differs substantially from our earlier work because in this paper the PNP MGs are used as permanent 2D array nanopore formers within the perovskite layer of STPSCs for the first time. PNP MGs stand out from other types of MGs because they have a remarkable tendency to form nonclose-packed 2D arrays when deposited from water. This effect was first reported by Pelton and Chibante  40  . The mechanism for such 2D array formation relies upon deposition of swollen, repulsive, monodisperse MGs at the liquid-air interface  47  onto the underlying substrate. We hypothesized that by combining the spontaneous formation of 2D PNP MG arrays with the tendency of MGs to act as pore-forming additives in perovskite/MG films  48  , 2D nanopore arrays would form within a new type of STPSC. This is the subject of the present study. The present work differs from other perovskite studies that have used preformed substrates such as anodized alumina  49, 50  or colloidal crystals  51  to prepare 2D nanopores. Uniquely, our MG approach does not require substrate prefabrication for nanopore formation or subsequent template removal after photoactive layer deposition. The 2D arrays prepared using PNP MGs form during perovskite deposition and provide additional beneficial functions such as shunt-blocking and passivation. There were two motivations for the present study. Firstly, we aimed to establish a new scalable singlestep approach to increase the AVT of STPSCs. This was devised to avoid a fundamental limitation for STPSCs; wherein, increasing the AVT usually requires a decrease in film thickness. The latter inevitably results in pinholes and a decrease in device performance  52  . Previous approaches to avoid this bottleneck used micro-islands or microsphere lithography. Whilst the use of micro-islands  26  with passivation  29  or shunt-blocking layers  53  have improved STPSC performance, the procedures used required multiple steps. STPSCs prepared using microsphere lithography 52 also required multiple steps. Our second motivation was to introduce 2D order into STPSCs in one step as part of our research program for scalable photonic perovskite films. Photonic perovskite films have been prepared by microsphere lithography  51, 54  ; however, the processes used also required multiple steps. In this study we achieve long range 2D order using scalable one-step deposition that employs standard STPSC substrates and processing conditions. Here, we report new STPSCs prepared by co-depositing PNP MGs with a mixed dual cation methylammonium-formamidinium lead iodide (MAFAPbI3) precursor solution (See Figure  1 ). We first study the new perovskite/MG composite photoactive layers and then construct STPSC devices. The MGs increase the PCE, AVT and LUE and we investigate the causes for these behaviors. We also discuss the mechanism for 2D nanopore array formation. Our champion STPSC exhibited a PCE of 11.64% and an AVT of 25.32%. This work establishes a remarkably simple method to build-in extended 2D order within STPSCs using single step deposition. The process responsible for 2D nanopore array formation is likely scalable which bodes well for future potential use in STPSCs.  
 EXPERIMENTAL Materials Methacrylic acid (MAA) (98%), N-isopropylacrylamide (NP) (≥ 99%), methylenebisacrylamide (BIS, 99%), potassium persulfate (KPS, 99%), and sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS, 98.5%) were all purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used as received. Methylammonium chloride (MACl, 99%), methylammonium iodide (MAI, 98%) titanium isopropoxide (TIP, 97%), 2-methoxy ethanol (99.8%), ethanolamine (≥ 99.5%,), 2,2 ' ,7,7  '  -tetrakis[N,N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)amino]-9.9 'spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD, 99%), 4-tert-butylpyridine (TBP, 96%), bis(trifluoromethane) sulfonimide lithium salt (LiTFSI, 99.95%), and 1-butanol (BuOH, anhydrous, 99.8%) were also all purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used as received. Formamidinium iodide (FAI, 98%, Ossila), and Acetone (ACS reagent, ≥ 99.5%) and absolute ethanol (EtOH, 99.8%) were purchased from Fisher Scientific and used as received. All water used was ultrahigh purity and deionized. 
 Poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) microgel synthesis PNP MGs were synthesized using precipitation polymerization following a previously reported method  55  . NP (0.182 g, 1.61 mmol), MAA (0.012 g, 0.14 mmol), BIS (3.0 mg, 0.019 mmol) and SDS (5.4 mg) were added to water (20.0 mL) in a glass reactor. The reactor was degassed by N2 purge for 1 h. Then, KPS solution (0.012 g) dissolved in water (5.0 mL) was added. The mixture was maintained at 70 °C for 7 h under a N2 atmosphere with vigorous stirring and then cooled to room temperature. Repeated centrifugation and redispersion cycles in water were carried out to purify the MGs. The MG particles were then transferred from water into DMF/DMSO (4:1) by repeated centrifugation and redispersion and finally diluted to a concentration of 10.0 wt % in DMF/DMSO (4:1). 
 Perovskite precursor solution preparation A mixture of PbI2 (0.461 g, 1.00 mmol), FAI (0. The mixture was mixed using a vortex mixer for 10 s prior to deposition. Similar methods were used for the other MFxMGy systems. 
 Solar cell fabrication STPSCs were constructed with the n-i-p architecture shown in  
 Characterization Dynamic light scattering (DLS) was conducted using a Malvern Nano ZS instrument to measure the z-average diameter (dz). A Mettler-Toledo instrument was used for %MAA titration. UV-visible spectra were measured using a Perkin Elmer lambda 25 spectrometer. The AVT values were calculated by measuring the average transmittance in the wavelength range of 380 to 760 nm  [56] [57] [58]  . Reflectance measurements were measured at an angle of 60°. Photoluminescence (PL) spectra were measured using an Edinburgh instruments FLS980 with the beam incident on the perovskite side. The excitation wavelength was 470 nm. A long-pass filter at 590 nm was used. All measurements not involving solar cells were recorded using glass/ITO/bl-TiO2 as the substrate. A Quanta 200 and Tescan Mira3 SC SEM instruments were utilized for SEM. MG samples were coated by Au or Au/Pd. AFM images were acquired using a Bruker Bioscope Catalyst AFM with a Nanoscope V controller The binding energy was calibrated by removing the bias voltage and aligning the gold Fermi edge to 0 eV. The current-density voltage characteristics were measured using a Keithley 2420 Sourcemeter with AM 1.5G illumination (100 mW.cm -2 ) via an ABET solar simulator. The instrument was calibrated and corrected for spectral irradiance mismatch using a certified Oriel Si-reference cell. The device area was 0.079 cm 2 which was defined using a square aperture. The illumination was from the glass side for all devices. Unless otherwise stated, the PCEs and other data discussed in this work are from the reverse scans. A Newport QuantX-300 instrument was used for measuring EQE data. 
 Optical modelling Finite difference time domain (FDTD) were conducted using Lumerical FDTD Solutions (Release 2021.R1; Version 8.25.2525). A plane wave was incident perpendicular to the surface of a model film/substrate and the reflectance and transmittance determined by numerically solving Maxwell's equations  60  . The wavelength range for the calculations was 340 to 900 nm using 113 data points with equally spaced wavelengths. Perfectly matched layers were placed at the z-axis extremes. The geometries used for the simulations were based on the morphologies found and are discussed later. 
 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 Semitransparent perovskite solar cells containing PNP MGs PNP MGs are well-known in the biomaterials literature  44  and easily prepared  61  . PNP has a lower critical solution temperature of 32 °C in water and our MGs exhibit the VPTT effect which is manifested as a decrease in dz from 590 nm to 243 nm as the temperature increases from 25 to 60 °C (see Figure  S1 , ESI †). The MGs were transferred to DMF/DMSO (4:1) and combined with the perovskite precursors to prepare STPSCs (Figure  1 ). The MG dz value in DMF/DMSO (4:1) is 780 nm compared to 590 nm in water (Figure  2a ). (The polydispersity index values are shown in Table  S1 , ESI †.) Hence, the MGs swelled strongly in the DMF/DMSO blend used for STPSC preparation. Potentiometric titration data (Figure  S2a , ESI †) showed that the MGs contained 6.50 wt% MAA and the pKa was 5.5. The presence of MAA caused pH-triggered swelling of the MGs in water when the pH approached and then exceeded the pKa (Figure  S2b , ESI †). PNP MGs form non-close-packed 2D arrays when deposited from water  47  . Figure  2b  shows that non-close packed hexagonal 2D array formation occurs when the MGs are deposited from DMSO, which is also a good solvent for PNP. The Fourier transform pattern (inset) shows a hexagonal geometry confirming the high degree of order. The line profile (Figure  2b ) shows that the MGs flatten substantially upon deposition since the MG height-to-diameter ratio is ~ 1:13. The 1:1 height vs. distance profile illustrates the flattening of these MGs.   62  . MFxMGy films were first investigated with a range of compositions to establish how x (perovskite precursor concentration) and y (MG concentration) affect the AVT (see Figure  S3a , ESI †). It can be seen from Figure  S3b  and S3c (ESI †) that the AVTs decrease with increasing x for the MFx films. Figures  S3d  and S3e  show that for the MFxMGy films increasing y (at constant x) increases the AVT for x ≤ 9.0% or decreases the AVT for x ≥ 13.0%. We focussed on the MF15MGy series of films in this study. Whilst the MFxMGy films have a wavelength-dependent transmittance, the PNP MGs do not absorb light (Figure  S4 , ESI †). We used the MF15MGy series to prepare devices because the AVTs of the films were close to 30% (Figure  S3d , ESI †) and an AVT decrease of ~ 5% was expected for the devices. STPSCs were constructed using the architecture depicted in Figure  1 . Photographs of the complete semitransparent devices are shown in Figure  3a . Transmission spectra are shown (Figure  3b ) from which the AVTs were calculated (Figure  3c ). The AVTs for the MF15, MF15MG0.5, MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5.0 devices are 39.5, 24.4, 25.3 and 22.0%, respectively. These values are lower than those of the respective films (Figure  S3d , ESI †) due to the Spiro and Au layers in the devices. Also, the ITO used for the films was replaced with FTO for the devices. Figure  3d  shows the J-V data for the best devices. The champion device is MF15MG1.5 which has a PCE of 11.64%. The EQE spectra (Figure  3e ) for the MF15, MF15MG0.5, MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5 devices gave Jsc values of 13.37, 15.15, 15.96 and 13.56 mA.cm -2 , respectively, which are within 7% of the average values measured from the J-V measurements (Table  S2 ). The EQE is relatively low at wavelengths between 550 and 850 nm because the films transmit more light in that wavelength region (Figure  3b ). The PCE obtained for the best device in this study (MF15MG1.5) is amongst the highest of those reported for other STPSCs which have an AVT of ~ 25% as shown in Figure  3f . the PCEs are higher for all of the MF15MGy devices compared to the MG-free control (MF15). Hence, inclusion of the MGs in these STPSCs increases their efficiencies. All of the device parameters for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5 are higher than those for MG15. The Jsc and FF values are a maximum for MF15MG1.5 and this is responsible for the relatively high PCE values for this system. The fact that the Voc values for the MF15MGy devices are all higher than that of MF15 (Figure  4b ) indicates the MGs passivated the perovskite. We return to this topic later.  
 LUE (%) LUE for the latter is 2.60%, which is in the range that is desirable for applications  24  . Furthermore, the devices containing MGs exhibited significantly lower hysteresis index (HI) values (Figure  S5 , ESI †). Indeed, MF15MG1.5 shows the lowest hysteresis value of 10.0%. In contrast, the HI value for MF15 is 26.70%. Inequalities in ion migration are a major cause of hysteresis  63  . Consequently, it follows that the MGs strongly decreased the unequal build-up of mobile ions at the perovskite interfaces. 
 Investigating the effects of the PNP MGs on morphology and optoelectronic properties To understand the reasons why the MGs increase the LUEs for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5, we first consider the causes for the PCE increases. The AVT improvements are addressed later. AFM and SEM images were measured to study the film morphology (Figure  5 ). We used AFM to investigate the topography of the films (Figure  5a -5d ). The morphologies change dramatically from polycrystalline to nanopore-like when MGs are included. The insets show perspective views. Nanopores are easily seen for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5. The insets of Figure  5b  and 5c  show that the pores are surrounded by perovskite crystals. The AFM image for MF15MG5.0 (Figure  5d ) shows that there are occasional relatively tall nano-volcano-like features on the surface. These features are attributed to MGs deposited on top of the first MG layer that form part of an incomplete second layer. The MGs act as templates for perovskite growth. Line profiles for the films are shown in Figure  S6  (ESI †). The nanopores have a slightly raised section near to the centres which may be due to the dome of a flattened MG (compare with lower profile in Figure  2b ).  SEM images for the films are shown in figures 5e to 5l. Non-close-packed 2D nanopore arrays are evident for MF15MG0.5 (Figure  5f ), MF15MG1.5 (Figure  5g ) and MF15MG5.0 (Figure  5h ). The Fourier transform patterns of the images (insets) reveal that extended order is present for MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5.0. The Fourier transform pattern for MF15MG1.5 shows a pronounced hexagonal structure, which is a signature of an extended 2D crystalline array. (Compare to inset of Figure  2b .) Whilst related morphologies have been achieved using multistep sacrificial colloid crystals  52  , achieving a highly ordered 2D nanopore morphology for a perovskite film deposited in one step is unprecedented. Comparison with the SEM images for the control MF15 film (Figure  5a ) confirms that the 2D nanopore morphology is due to the MGs. Nanopore diameter distributions (Figure  S7 , ESI †) give average diameters for MF15MG0.5, MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5 of 1570, 469 and 237 nm, respectively. The line profile for MF15MG0.5 (Figure  S6b , ESI †) shows that these nanopores have an outer shallow region and an inner deep central region. The inner central region extends through the full thickness of the film (Figure  5b ). The size distribution for these nanopores from AFM (Figure  S7e , ESI †) gives an average diameter of 456 nm. Higher magnification SEM images are shown for the films in Figure  5i  -5l. The hexagonal non-close packed arrangement of the nanopores is highlighted. Figure  S8 (ESI † ) shows that the grain size distributions and average grain sizes for the films. The grain size reaches a maximum of 417 nm for the MG15MF1.5 film. At higher MG concentrations, the grain size is constrained by the decreased separation of the nanopores. The latter is quantified in Figure  S9 (ESI † ). The thicknesses of films ranged from 54 nm for MF15 to 155 nm for MF15MG5 and increased with increasing y (Figure  S10 , ESI †). We suggest that the available area for unobstructed perovskite growth between the MGs decreased as the MG content increased. We assume that the MGs locally prevented perovskite growth, i.e., crystallization could barely occur within the deposited MG. It follows that if the same volume of perovskite phase were to be crystallized from a given deposition, z-directional growth would result in a thicker perovskite film as the MG content increased. The formation mechanism of the nanopores is discussed in more detail in the Supporting Information and Figure  S11 (ESI † ). The fact that the MF15 photoactive layer is much thinner (54 nm) than those for the MF15MGy films (128 -155 nm, Figure  S10  of ESI †) may account for the lower PCE of the MF15 device. To test this suggestion, we prepared MF18 devices and measured their performance (Figure  S12 , ESI †). The thickness for MF18 is 145 nm and the device AVT is 22.04%. The average PCE is 7.62%. This value is significantly lower than the average PCEs for MF15MG0.5 (9.24%) and MF15MG1.5 (10.26%). Hence, the perovskite thickness difference noted above cannot account for the PCE improvements of the MF15MGy devices compared to MF15. Consequently, we investigated other factors. X-ray diffraction patterns were measured to examine the film structures (Figure  6a ). The full-width at half maximum height (FWHM, Figure  6b ) is smallest for MF15MG1.5. This trend indicates an increase in crystallite size according to the Scherrer equation  64  . The changes of the FWHM values for the films generally concur with the respective grain size values in Figure  S8e (ESI † ). The ratio of the (  110 ) and (310) peaks is a measure of the crystal orientation in perovskite films  65, 66  . This ratio is shown in Figure  6c  and is much smaller for the MF15MGy films (1.0 -4.9) compared to MF15 (ratio = 135). Notably, it is smallest for MF15MG1.5 (ratio = 1.0). The ratios reported for the M15MGy films are in the range reported for high PCE PSCs  65, 66  . Furthermore, the relative peak intensities for the (112) and (202) peaks compared to the (110) peak also increased. Consequently, the MGs increased the orientation diversity of the crystals. Achieving preferred orientation for perovskite films requires synchronized nucleation and growth of perovskite grains; whereas, unsynchronized crystallization results in grains with different growth directions  67  . We propose that the RCOOH groups of the MGs complex with perovskite precursors and thereby slow crystallisation in the vicinity of the MGs. (Evidence for such binding is found from the FTIR and XPS data below). Additionally, the relatively large size of the MGs and high intra-MG particle viscosity  68  would restrict supply of precursor to crystals growing close to the MG. However, further away from the MG surface the crystallisation should be faster as this would not be affected by complexation or precursor supply constraints. Hence, a gradient of crystallization rates is proposed for the MG-containing systems, which results in more random growth directions of the crystals between the MGs and greater orientation diversity compared to the MG-free control (MF15). The AFM line profiles of MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5 (Fig.  S6(b ) and 6(c)) show gradual increases in height with distance from the nanopore centre (and hence flattened MG) and support this proposal. We next investigated perovskite-MG interactions. PL measurements of the films deposited on glass were undertaken to investigate passivation (see Figure  7a ). The pure perovskite (MF15) exhibited a peak intensity at around 800 nm, which is in agreement with literature  69  . There is a strong increase in PL intensity for the MF15MGy films as y increases (See Figure  7b ). This trend does not follow the variation of the grain sizes (Figure  S8e , ESI †). The increase in PL intensity due to the MGs implies a lower trap density when MGs are present and is strongly suggestive of passivation of the perovskite  70  . To further probe this suggestion time-resolved photoluminescence lifetime (TRPL) data were measured and are shown in Fig.  S13a , ESI †. The data were fitted to a single exponential decay model 71 . Notably, here the  values increase with increasing MG concentration used to prepare the films (Fig.  S13b ) reaching 157 ns for MF15MG5. This trend confirms the steady-state PL data (Figure . 7b) and supports our proposal that the MGs passivate the perovskite. It follows from these results that a favorable perovskite-MG interaction was present. FTIR spectra were recorded to investigate the possibility of an interaction between the MG and Pb 6 (Figure  7c ). The spectrum for PNP has Amide I and Amide II bands at 1635 cm -1 and 1535 cm -1 , 7 respectively  72, 73  . The former band moves to 1625 cm -1 while the latter band greatly diminishes in 8 magnitude when the MG is mixed with PbI2. The Amide I band is mainly due to C=O stretching. 9 Hence, the C=O stretching is strongly perturbed by interaction with Pb. The Amide II band has a 10 contribution from N-H bending  73  . Furthermore, the C-H band deformation at 1455 cm -1 (isopropyl -11 CH3 asymmetric deformation)  74  moves to 1424 cm -1 in the presence of PbI2. These three changes 12 strongly indicate a pronounced interaction of the N-isopropylacrylamide unit of the MG with Pb. The -COOH groups from MAA likely also contribute to this interaction as such groups within PNP MGs were shown to absorb Pb in 1997  75  . However, for the present MGs the proportion of RCOOH groups is ~ 8 mol.% with respect to NP and is too small to be apparent in the FTIR spectra. XPS spectra were measured to probe the surface of the MF15MG5 and MF18 films (see Figure  7d ). The Pb 4f spectra for MF18 shows peaks at 138.6 and 143.5 eV, which are due to  76  Pb 2+ . There are also two smaller peaks that are ascribed to  77  under-coordinated Pb 0 and they are indicated by vertical red arrows. Pb 0 is considered as a recombination centre for PSCs  78  . Interestingly, the Pb 0 peaks are barely visible for MF15MG5. Moreover, the 4f7/2 and 4f5/2 Pb 2+ peaks shifted to 138.1 and 143.0 eV for MF15MG5. This equates to a relatively large 0.5 eV shift to lower binding energies (BE). The decreased Pb 0 content and BE shift for Pb 2+ point to binding between Pb and the NP/MAA repeat unit in these MGs. I 3d XPS spectra were also obtained and show significant differences for the two films (Figure  S14 , ESI †). The two peaks for the control film at 619.0 and 630.5 eV are at the BE values normally observed for perovskite flms  79  . However, they both move to lower BE by 0.5 eV for MF15MG5 and are consistent with a strong interaction between the additive and perovskite  78  . This result is suggestive of the surface iodine species gaining additional negative charge. Additionally, electron density may be provided by the MG through an amide-to-iodide interaction  80  . In summary, the PL, FTIR and XPS data are all indicative of a strong MG-to-perovskite interaction. Electrochemical impedance data were measured to probe charge transfer processes. The Bode plots (Fig.  S15a , ESI †) indicate that one charge transport process was dominant. Scrutiny of the Nyquist plots (Fig.  S15b ) shows one main arc (high frequency process) and the beginnings of a second (low frequency) arc for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5. We ascribe the main arc to a global hole transport process  81, 82  with a resistance of (RP). (The second, low frequency process, may be due to recombination.). The data were fitted to a model of a series resistor (Rs) and one parallel resistor/capacitor. The value for Rs were in the range of 0.93 to 1.06  cm 2 and changed by less than 10% over the series (Fig.  S15c ). The value for Rp for MF18, MF15MG0.5, MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5.0 were 302, 211, 114 and 112  cm 2 , respectively. These data imply that the hole charge transfer rate increases as the MG content increased. A decrease in RP should favour a high FF value. These data help explain the relatively high FF values for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5 (Fig.  4c ). The effect of the MGs on band alignment was investigated by measuring the UPS spectra for the films (see Fig.  S16a  and 16b, ESI †). From the cut-off and onset energies as well as the band gaps derived from Tauc plots (Fig.  S17 , ESI †), the band positions were determined as shown in Fig.  S16c . The energy levels for MF15 are close to those reported for related perovskites  83  . The Fermi levels were close to the conduction band minimum energies which shows that all of the films had n-type doping  84  . Interestingly, the Fermi level energies decreased as the MG content increased, which may be due to electron donation from the MGs. The difference between the energy of the conduction band minimum and the Spiro HOMO increased as the MG content increased, which could contribute to an increase in Voc  85  . The MG-induced alteration of band positions together with the MG-passivation discussed above both contribute to the high Voc values for the MG-containing films (Fig.  4b ). 
 Investigating the effects of the PNP MGs on light management We next consider the ability of the MGs to improve the light management in the films. Reflectance spectra were measured for the films (see Figure  8a ). The films containing MGs had a much lower reflectance than MF15. We simulated the reflectance and transmittance spectra using the morphologies deduced from the SEM and AFM studies. The values of the nanopore diameters, film thicknesses and periods used for the FDTD simulations are shown in Table  S4  (ESI †). An example geometry used for the simulations is shown in Figure  S18  (ESI †). The simulated reflectance data (Figure  8b ) follow the same general trends as the experimental data. The numerical differences are in part because the experimental reflectance data were measured at a fixed angle. The trends for the measured transmittance spectra (Figure  8c ) are also reproduced by the simulated data (Figure  8d ). This good agreement can also be seen from a comparison of the AVTs from the measured and simulated spectra (see Figure  8e ).  
 Wavelength (nm) Having captured the physics of the light transmission with the FDTD simulations, we then examined the role of the nanopores in light management. FDTD was used to simulate transmission spectra for uniform (MG-free) M15 films with the same thickness as the MF15MGy films (see Figure  S19 , ESI †). The MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5 films have higher transmission at wavelengths less than 600 nm. The AVTs calculated for the MF15MGy systems (Figure  8f ) show the greatest improvement for MF15MG1.5. The simulated AVTs show that for MF15MG0.5 and MF15MG1.5 films the nanopores increase light transmittance compared to the uniform MF15 film. This is because of the larger size of those pores (Table  S4 ). In support of the simulated data the experimentally measured AVT for MF15MG1.5 (28.68%, Figure  S3d , ESI †) is significantly greater than that measured for MF18 (24.97%, Figure  S3c , ESI †) even though both films have almost identical thicknesses of 146 and 145 nm, respectively. Hence, including MGs in the perovskite films increases their AVT. 
 Why PNP NGs improve the light utilization efficiency The LUE is, by definition, proportional to the product of the PCE and AVT. Figure  S20a   We now address the question of why the LUE of MF15MG1.5 is the largest of all the systems studied. MF15MG1.5 has the highest PCE of all the systems studied because it has highest Jsc and FF as well as a high Voc (Figure  4b ). The Jsc benefits from the large grain size (Figure  S8e , ESI †) and fewer grain boundaries. The number of grain boundaries is inversely proportional to the average grain size for a polycrystalline film  86  . Hence, the number of grains per unit area is inversely proportional to the square of the grain size. Using the average grain sizes for MF15MG1.5 (417 nm) and MF15 (155 nm), the former would contain a factor of ~ 7 fewer grain boundaries than the latter. Whist it is correct that the nanopores in MF15MG1.  Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. Procedure for fabrication of STPSCs containing 2D nanopore array MFxMGy films. The 
 Figure 1 . 1 Unpatterned FTO-coated glass substrates (thickness 1.1 mm, 20 Ω/sq) were cleaned by ultrasonication in a 1.0 wt % Hellmanex solution, rinsed with water, followed by acetone and IPA, and then dried with N2. Prior to film deposition, the FTO substrate surface was treated with UV-ozone for 15 min. Then, the blocking electron transport layer (bl-TiO2, 80 µL) was deposited onto the FTO substrate at 4500 rpm and 500 rpm/s for 30 s by spin-coating. The bl-TiO2 precursor was prepared by mixing TIP (160 µL) and ethanolamine (140 µL) in 2-methoxy ethanol (2.0 mL) which was then heated at 45 o C for 5 min and filtered using a syringe filter (0.45 µm). The FTO/bl-TiO2 (40 nm) substrates were then annealed on a hot plate for 45 min at 450 o C. The MAFAPbI3 precursor solution containing MG (total volume 100µL) was spin-coated onto the FTO/bl-TiO2 substrates in a two-speed protocol; (1) 1000 rpm, increasing at 200 rpm/s over 10 s, and (2) 4000 rpm for 30 s including an initial increase of 1000 rpm/s. CBZ (180 µL) was used as an antisolvent and added quickly at the end of 10 s of the second step. The samples turned brown within 2 to 3 s upon placing them on a preheated hot plate for 50 min at 100 o C. Spiro-OMeTAD (0.090 g), tBP (34 µL), LiTFSI solution in acetonitrile (0.52 g/mL, 19 µL) and FK209 solution in acetonitrile (0.30 g/mL, 10 µL) were dissolved in CBZ (1.0 mL). This solution was heated at 45 o C for 5 min and filtered using a 0.2 µm syringe filter. Then, the HTM precursor solution (80 µL) was dynamically spin-coated onto the perovskite layer at 3000 rpms for 30 s. The HTM thickness was 200 nm. Finally, Au was deposited by thermal evaporation as the top electrode (10 nm). 
 ( Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) was performed using an ESCA2SR spectrometer 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) Dynamic light scattering (DLS) size distributions for the PNP MGs dispersed in 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a) Photographs of complete STPSCs. The dimensions are 20 mm x 15 mm. (b) 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. (a) Short-circuit current density, (b) open-circuit voltage, (c) fill factor and (d) power 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. AFM peak-force tapping mode images for the films are shown in (a) to (d). The insets 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. (a) XRD profiles for the films. (b) Average full-width at half maximum height (FWHM) 
 1 Figure 7 . 17 Figure 7. (a) PL spectra measured for films deposited on glass. (b) Maximum PL intensities from 2 
 Figure 8 . 8 Figure 8. (a) Measured reflectance spectra for the films. (b) Simulated reflectance spectra. (c) 
 and S20b (ESI †) show the variation of the LUE values with PCE and AVT, respectively. The MF18, MF15MG0.5, MF15MG1.5 and MF15MG5 photoactive layers have similar thicknesses (128 to 155 nm) and the variation of their LUE values closely follows both the PCE and AVT values. Indeed, the gradients of LUE vs. PCE and LUE vs. AVT are 0.322 and 0.316, respectively. This shows that for these STPSCs the contributions to LUE from the composition-induced PCE changes and AVT changes are the same. The MF15 system does not follow these trends because the AVT is the more dominant contributor to the LUE (compared to the PCE) in that case. 
 Figure8fshows that the MGs in MF15MG1.5 increase the AVT most (~ 20% relative increase) with 
 MFxMGy nanopore film Hot plate: 100˚C PNP MG MAI, FAI, PbI 2 , MACl DMF:DMSO Device construction + Solvent Solution Perovksite Au Spiro MG bl-TiO 2 FTO Glass Crystallization & MG de-swelling PbI2 (99.99%, TCI) were used as received. N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.8%), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 99%), tris(2-(1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-4-tert-butylpyridine) cobalt(III) tri[bis(trifluoromethane) sulfonimide] (FK 209 Co(III) TFSI), acetonitrile (99.9%), chlorobenzene (CBZ, 99.8%), and 2-propanol (IPA, 99.5%) were all purchased from Acros and used as received. 
			 mm Top view STPSC
Paper #: 3649_4
Title: A review on developments and researches of building integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) windows and shading blinds
BIPV windows integrate solar cells within window glazing and do not only retain the functionality of conventional windows but also provide other benefits such as electricity generation and thermal insulation. BIPV windows are categorized into single glazed BIPV windows, double glazed BIPV windows with/without ventilation and vacuum BIPV windows depending on the configurations of the glazing. The electricity generation, thermal performance and optics of BIPV windows are reviewed in this paper. The results of this study showed that the total heat gain through BIPV windows are less than conventional windows in summer and hence the electricity used by air-conditioning in summer would be reduced. In addition to the electricity produced by BIPV windows, there are great potentials to reduce building energy consumption significantly in hot climate areas. The development and performance of BIPV blinds which integrate solar cells with blinds are also reviewed. BIPV blinds are grouped into outdoor PV blinds, indoor PV blinds and middle PV blinds according to the position of blinds relative to the windows. Future research directions are also suggested for this research domain.
Introduction According to the report from International Energy Agency (IEA), more than 30% of global energy is consumed by buildings, which has become a great incentive to reduce building energy consumption  [1] . During summer, the solar radiation entering rooms through windows significantly increases the energy consumption by air-conditioning systems, it is especially serious in new-built high-rise buildings with high window-to-wall ratios. Therefore, reducing the solar radiation through windows into rooms is an effective approach to reduce cooling loads and energy consumption for air conditioning. Integrating photovoltaic (PV) cells within windows or shading devices is a promising way to cut down cooling loads and to generate electricity in buildings. Building Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) window is an integration of PV modules with traditional windows, which can replace traditional windows entirely  [2] . Compared with traditional windows, BIPV windows can attenuate the solar radiation penetrating into rooms, thereby reducing the power consumption of air-conditioning systems. Meanwhile, BIPV windows may mitigate light glare from windows  [3]    [4] . The impact of BIPV windows is commonly analyzed in three dimensions: electricity generation, thermal performance and optical performance  [5]   [6] . The electrical performance is expressed in terms of electrical efficiency and electricity production per square meter while the thermal performance is mainly expressed in terms of SHGC (solar heat gain coefficient) and U-value (heat transfer coefficient, indicates the thermal transmission per unit area of a material). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.111355   The value of SHGC determines the solar energy directly incident into the room through the window  [7] , and the U-value determines the heat gains/losses through the window due to temperature difference between indoors and outdoors environment  [8] . Both SHGC and U-value significantly affects the heat gains/losses of the room, hence affects the energy used for HVAC systems  [9]    [10] . The optical performance includes visual light transmittance (VLT) and glare probability value, which affects the indoor visual effect and energy consumption of artificial illumination  [11] . Fig.  1  illustrates how the BIPV adoption affects building energy consumption. The optical characteristics of BIPV windows affects indoor illumination and therefore artificial lighting in buildings, which consequently influences energy consumption for lighting. The SHGC and U values which express the thermal characteristics of BIPV windows directly affect indoor heat gain, and therefore energy consumption for air conditioning. BIPV windows can generate electricity which can be consumed in the buildings or connected to a grid. which has realized building energy conservation to a certain extent. Therefore, the impact of BIPV windows on building energy consumption is determined by the trade-off between lighting performance, electrical generation performance, and thermal performance  [12] . Fig.  1 . Effects of BIPV adoption on building energy consumptions  [12] . Some researchers have reviewed the applications and performances of BIPV systems in buildings from different perspectives. Baljit et al.  [13]  compared the installation methods, system performance and applications of BIPV and BIPV/T technologies. Agathokleous et al.  [14]  reviewed research progress on heat transfer of PV panels integrated with double skin facades with multiple integration modes. Yang et al.  [1]  conducted a review of BIPV/T systems and categorized them into air-based, water-based and other systems. Debbarma et al.  [15]  reviewed recent studies on BIPV and BIPV/T systems including thermal modeling and exergy analysis. Debbarma et al.  [16]  also compared the performance of various BIPV and BIPVT technologies as well as their functions, costs, appearance and installation applications. Sarkar et al.  [17]  carried out an investigation on development trends of the characteristics of BIPV system. Lucchino et al.  [18]  reviewed current effective tools for energy simulation of double skin facades and highlighted potentials for future development. Zhang et al.  [19]  reviewed photovoltaic integrated shading devices (PVSDs). Shukla et al.  [20]  reviewed the application of BIPV in South Asia and discussed its barrier, challenges and future directions. Saretta et al.  [21]  conducted a review on the use of BIPV in renovation of facades to improve their energy performance. Biyik et al.  [22]  reviewed BIPV and BIPV/T applications in the light of power generation, nominal power, efficiency, type and performance evaluation methods. In addition, several approaches to improve the efficiency of BIPV/T through ventilation or the use of integrated new thin film technology were identified. The application of BIPV and BAPV system, strengths and challenges and solutions were reviewed at length by Ghosh  [23] . Tilmann et al.  [24]  reviewed a wide range of technical design options for BIPV systems and analyzed two basic module-level designs. This included using PV cells as the fundamental elements of patterns and using colors to hide PV cells in particular. Yu et al.  [25]  reviewed the development of BIPVT with a focus on the design of an integrated solar system with a building faç ade and its influences on power production, PV cell thermal performance, and building energy consumption for the cooling load. Cannavale et al.  [26]  investigated the potential to reduce energy consumption of a case building in southern Italy by incorporating BIPV. The results showed that the overall annual energy use could be reduced by 18% if standard clear glass windows are replaced with BIPV windows and shadings. Chen et al.  [27]  presented a design optimization methods for BIPV systems to explore the influences of confounding factors and archetypes in urban high-rise commercial buildings. Chen et al.  [28]  also studied PV application and the design strategies of traditional passive buildings through a comprehensive design optimization process. The review of BIPV window is illustrated in Table  Previous studies mainly include the application of BIPV windows in building components, or a single study on the performance of a certain type of BIPV windows while only few studies analyzed the impact of BIPV windows on building energy consumption. Thus advancement in BIPV windows has not been comprehensively addressed. Figure  1  shows the three main aspects of BIPV windows for building energy consumption. There are many types of BIPV Windows and shading blinds. Thus, this paper classifies them according to their structure prior to studying their performance. First of all, the BIPV windows are classified into single-layer photovoltaic window, double-layer photovoltaic window and vacuum photovoltaic window. Furthermore ， the double-layer photovoltaic windows are further categorized into double-layer photovoltaic window with closed air layer and double-layer photovoltaic window with ventilated air layer according to the presence or absence of air circulation in the cavity layer. With reference to the location of the louvers, BIPV shading blinds are divided into outdoor PV blinds, middle PV blinds and indoor PV blinds. When studying each type of photovoltaic window, its structure is introduced in detail at first. Thereafter its influence on building energy and indoor environment performances are analyzed. Furthermore, the energy savings from these windows are compared with that of traditional windows. The application of new solar cells to BIPV windows are also mentioned in this paper. Finally, data is extracted from the literature review to compare the performance of several types of BIPV Windows or shading louvers blinds. This paper takes the approach of reviewing and analyzing the different BIPV windows and shading blinds. Therefore, the Section 2 of this paper presents a comprehensive review on recent developments and research of BIPV windows by evaluating their optical, thermal and electrical performance from the structure of the photovoltaic glass. At the end of the Section 2, the content of the whole chapter is analyzed from the PV type, research method, locations distribution researched, year distribution, the main focus on performance, and main findings. In Section 3, shading blinds also be reviewed since their designs and conditions of shading largely affect the performance of windows. Section 4 presents the research results of this article and the future direction of BIPV window research that needs rigorous studies and improvement. The study does not focus on the differences between BIPV and BIPVT since integrating both technologies with windows inevitably affects the cooling and heating loads of a building. 
 BIPV Windows 
 General description BIPV windows in this study refer to semi-transparent PV (STPV) glazing integrated within windows applied to buildings. BIPV windows have a photovoltaic effect that transforms part of the incident solar irradiation into useful electricity, while reducing solar heat gain and indoor daylighting  [5] . Since BIPV windows are usually semi-transparent,  
 Single glazed BIPV windows (1) Configuration Fig.  3 . Typical structure of a single glazed BIPV window  [29] . A single glazed BIPV window refers to a window equipped with single semi-transparent PV glazing. As shown in Fig.  3 , the single PV glazing consists of two layers of glass panes, and a series of thin-film solar cells which are enclosed between the two glass panes  [29] . The thin-film solar cells are semi-transparent with a VLT ranging from 5 to 10%. In order to increase the VLT of the whole glazing, the glazing is usually not fully covered with solar cells. The ratio of the area covered with solar cells to the total area of the glazing is called cell coverage ratio. The single PV glazing is the basic type of PV glazing and all the other classes of PV glazing are based on it. The single PV glazing can be used as a common glass pane in a window. This class of BIPV windows can produce electricity and reduce indoor solar heat gain as it converts part of the incident radiation into electricity  [11] [60] . (2) Performance of single glazed BIPV windows windows used for typical office buildings in Hong Kong. The measured visible light transmittance and daily conversion efficiency was up to 11% and 6.0%, respectively. To elaborate the performance of this BIPV facade, case studies were conducted which indicated that the additional income from such systems can offset the initial construction cost. Chen et al.  [7]  introduced a method to measure SHGC of BIPV glazing used in tropical areas. It was proved that the spectrum of the solar simulator had obvious effect on the SHGC measurement. When the incident angle of solar irradiation was above 45°, the SHGC was significantly reduced which results in higher PV efficiency. This resulted in a higher conversion efficiency in comparison to re-radiated heat. The measured results are shown in Fig.  5  and Fig.  6 . Fig.  5 . The normalized power under different incident angles  [7] . Fig.  6 . The SHGC under different incident angles  [7] . Karthick et al.  [31]  investigated and compared the energy performance of single glazed BIPV windows incorporating two different solar cell coverage ratios of 0.69 and 0.77 at an latitude of 9°10' N and 77°52' E. The orientation of the modules influenced the performances of the BIPV system. An east orientation was most desirable for maximum power generation, however a south orientation was recommended for other parameters. By integrating buildings with PV modules, the indoor heat gain was reduced. It was found that the system had better energy performance under the condition of a low cell coverage ratio. Furthermore, Karthick et al.  [32]  studied the performance of some BIPV skylights on the rooftop of a laboratory in India under actual outdoor environmental condition. From the results, a cell coverage ratio of 0.62 resulted in a maximum daylight factor and indoor illumination of 4% and 850 lux, respectively. Furthermore, the PV skylight reduced the cooling load to 248 kWh per year. If the cell coverage ratio is increased to 0.72, an overall annual maximum energy saving of about 450 kWh can be obtained at a unit cost of 0.0354 $ / kWh. Peng et al.  [33]  developed a new single glazed BIPV window with c-Si cells. The technical procedures to develop this novel module are illustrated in Fig.  7 . The power generation, heat transfer performance and daylighting performance of the module were investigated experimentally in Berkeley, California. The daily electrical efficiency in the solar cell active area was nearly 15% in sunny days. Compared with conventional glass windows, this single glazed BIPV window had a lower SHGC of 0.25 and could also reduce discomfort glare. The daily energy consumption for artificial lighting was nearly 431 Wh while the electricity output by BIPV was 1940 Wh/day. The peak power output decrease by 0.42% for every temperature rise of 1°C. Fig.  7 . Specific technical procedures of novel BIPV module based on c-Si  [33] . Elghamry et al.  [34]  studied the influences of location of solar cells, the orientation and location of windows on the energy performances and CO2 emissions of BIPV windows at New Borg El-Arab in Egypt. The results showed that south oriented BIPV windows installed on roof generates the maximum annual power whereas the north oriented BIPV yields the minimum. Yang et al.  [35]  investigated the performance of faç ades with single glazed BIPV window affected by indoor air distribution by experiment in Taiyuan, China. The results showed that the influence of indoor air distribution on the operating temperature of PV modules was less impactful in comparison to the heat gain of single glazed BIPV facades. In contrast to a mixed ventilation (MV) system, the heat gain of the single glazed BIPV facades with the displacement ventilation (DV) system was reduced by 11.7%. Alrashidi et al.  [36]  experimentally characterized BIPV incorporating semi-transparent cadmium telluride (CdTe) in the UK. The visible transmission and solar transmission were confirmed to be 25% and 12%, respectively through spectral measurements. Also, the U-value of the BIPV window was 2.7 W/m 2 K. Alrashidi et al.  [37]  also found that the net potential energy saving of CdTe based single-glazed BIPV window was 20% more than a common single glazed window. Fan et al.  [38]  systematically studied the impact of thin film(TF) and crystalline silicon(C-Si) photovoltaic materials on the indoor lighting environment under different area coverage in different climate regions in China by using the DAYSIM tool to carry out a simulation. The results show that the optimal coverage area ranges of TF and C-Si are: 50-60% for both TF and C-Si in the representative area of Xi 'an; 60-70% for TF and 50-70% for C-Si in Beijing; 50-60% for TF and 60-70% for C-Si in Shanghai area; 50-60% for TF and 50-70% for C-Si in Guangzhou area; 40-60% for both TF and C-Si in Harbin representative area; and 30-50% for both TF and C-Si in Chongqing area. Yang et al.  [39]  investigated the effect of surface structure modification on the performance of solar cells in BIPV modules with metal oxide back coatings. The BIPV modules studied under different conditions included: transparent glass with black backing (G-BBS), coated glass with black backing (GC-BBS), etching glass with black backing (EG-BBS), and etching coated glass (EGC-BBS) with black backing. The results showed that by using the EGC-BBS structure, the photoelectric conversion efficiency (η) of the Si solar cell embedded in the BIPV module is 15.23%, and the fill factor (FF) value is 65.05%. Xuan et al.  [40]  introduced a new type of concentrator PV window (CPVW) system improve daylight uniformity through a concentrator. The daylighting performance of CPVW was analyzed and compared to a recent semi-transparent photovoltaic window system (STPVW). The research results show that the use of CPVW can significantly improve the uniformity of daylighting and also expand the effective illuminated area. The proportion of the effective illuminated area provided by CPVW is 6.69 times that of STPVW under the same conditions. Toledo et al.  [41] studied the operating cell temperature of PV modules by using two prediction models: NOCT and Sandia. The study also investigated the thermal performance of different photovoltaic technologies including polycrystalline silicon, CdTe, a-Si and organic PV. The results revealed how both models are strongly correlated to the amount and direction of incident solar irradiance. (3) Influence on building energy consumption and indoor environment BIPV windows absorb a portion of the incident solar radiation and convert it to generate electricity. Hence, this affects the indoor heat gains and natural daylight. Chae et al.  [42]  evaluated and compared the performance of single glazed BIPV windows with three different types of solar cells in a typical midsized commercial building under 6 different US climate conditions. The results indicated that the thermal and optical performance of BIPV windows significantly affected the overall building energy consumption. The sun wavelength spectra sensitively varied because of the manufacturing conditions of the solar cells, hence the BIPV window characteristics should be customized with real optical data. Do et al.  [43]  used the DOE-2.1e module to assess a single glazed BIPV windows adopting daylight-dimming systems in residential buildings in Houston, USA. It was found through simulation that the south-facing windows showed the highest potential for electricity generation and decrease of cooling load, while the east-facing windows saved the largest amount of lighting energy per year. In comparison to ordinary windows the BIPV window had huge energy saving potential. (4) Comparison of BIPV windows and conventional glazing windows Ng et al.  [2]  used computer simulations to analyze the energy performance of six commercial BIPV windows, including 4 single-glazed modules and 2 double-glazed modules in Singaporean office buildings. The study proved that these six different modules had a better energy saving potential than conventional windows. Ng et al.  [44]  further researched the lifetime performance of BIPV windows in tropical areas. Lu and Law  [45]  established three simulation models to evaluate the energy performance of single-glazed BIPV windows located in Hong Kong. The case study indicated that the thermal performance of the BIPV windows was primary for energy saving considerations while artificial lighting consumption was secondary. Liao and Xu  [46]  contrasted the overall energy performance of single-glazed a-Si based BIPV windows of two different transmittances to three traditional glazings in China. The study concluded that a-Si based PV glazing performed better than the traditional single glazed and double glazed windows in cooling dominated regions. In addition, the results revealed that BIPV glazing was more suitable than ordinary glazing for shallow rooms with large windows. Zhang et al.  [47]  compared the overall performance (thermal, daylighting and energy) of BIPV windows with ordinary double-pane windows and Low-E windows in different orientations used in Hong Kong based through simulations. It was found that the BIPV window had great electricity saving potential when compared to single and double-pane windows. The results were illustrated in Fig.  8 . Fig.  8 . The net electricity consumption of four types of glazing in different orientations  [47] . As shown in Fig.  8 , in contrast to transparent single pane and double pane glazing, the net electricity consumption of single glazed BIPV window in Hong Kong was significantly reduced, indicating a much better energy performance. However, its net electricity consumption was higher than low-e glazing in east and west orientation, and was only a little lower than low-e glazing in south orientation. The overall energy performance and cost-effectiveness of single glazed BIPV windows should be investigated under more typical climates (such as hot, cold, temperate climates, strong or weak solar irradiation) and typical orientations (south, west, east, north), and compared with various typical glazing (single pane, double pane glazing, low-e glazing, vacuum glazing). (5) New approaches for analysis Olivieri et al.  [48]  introduced the Energy Balance Index to assess the global energy performance of the single-glazed BIPV windows in Madrid, Spain. The results from experimentation and simulation indicated that the adoption of BIPV windows could result in energy savings of at least 18% and even up to 50% when compared with the reference glazing. For the normal incidence of solar radiation, Baenas and Machado  [49]  developed a closed-analytical expression that simplified the calculation process of SHGC of BIPV modules. He and Schnabel  [50]  developed a method for daylight analysis in an indoor environmental condition with BIPV window installations. The developed Calculation Model and Process for Daylight Illumination provided a relatively swifter approach to estimate the hourly indoor illumination. (6) Researches of PV glazing based on new material Cannavale et al.  [51]  found that the useful Daylight Illuminance value of semitransparent perovskite-based solar cell glass is significantly higher in comparison with transparent glass. Also, its performances are comparable to that of solar control glass, and the occurrence of high Daylight Glare Probability values could be reduced by 23%. Yang et al.  [52]  developed a new BIPV window adopting penetration-type semi-transparent thin-film solar cells based on hydrogenated a-Si. The results showed an improved transmittance and efficiency. Tsai  [53]  introduced key technologies for developing large-area (1.3m×1.1m) of tandem a/m-Si thin-film type solar modules for BIPV window applications and also explored its electrical and optical performances. Ghosh et al.  [54]  developed and studied the application a new type of carbon counter electrode perovskite solar cells used for BIPV windows as shown in Fig.  9 . The results of the study showed that the average solar and visible transmittance were 30% and 20%, respectively. The SHGC decreased from 0.33 to 0.14 when the incident angle increased from the lowest to the highest value. The visible transmission decreased from 30% to 10% when the incident angle increased from 10 o to 90 o . The U-value of this glazing was 5.6 W/m 2 K. From the above review studies, it is found that there are few specific data studies on the heat transfer performance, visible light transmission performance and energy conversion efficiency of single-layer photovoltaic windows. Most studies explore the impact of integrated photovoltaic window applicationson building energy consumption. Presently the visual light transmittance is low and should be improved in future studies. Also, more efforts should be taken to increase the electrical efficiency and cut down the cost. Yoon et al.  [56]  used a mock-up test to analyze the important characteristic of the surface temperature of double glazed BIPV windows. By experiment, they found that the surface temperature of double glazed BIPV windows in summer daytime and winter night were 1 °C lower and 2 °C higher than that of ordinary window, respectively, due to the effect of thermal insulation. 
 Double glazed BIPV windows with closed air layer Lee and Yoon  [57]  evaluated the long-term performance of a vertical and 30° inclined BIPV windows employing dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSC) in a mock-up facility with full-scale size (as shown in Fig.  11 ). The test data indicated that the vertical DSSC BIPV window had better energy performance than the 30° inclined variant. Fig.  11 . Experimental appearance of DSSC BIPV mock-up  [57] . Chen et al.  [58]  developed a test unit to monitor and find ways to optimize the energy performance of closed double glazed BIPV windows. The study found that installing south-facing PV windows with cell coverage ratio of 87% and two glazing panes with air gap of 0.9 mm was the best design option in southwest China. Mesloub et al.  [59]  conducted experiments and simulations on the optimum BIPV window design in Algeria. The highest energy savings obtained with double-glazed south orientated BIPV module was 60%. Chung et al.  [60]  studied the applicability of Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSC) prototype windows by analyzing indoor illumination and temperature, cooling, heating and lighting; performance. Research results show that DSSC prototype glass windows have a higher heat transfer rate (ie U value), but the visible light transmittance (VLT) is lower than low-e glass windows. Therefore, they reduce heating energy and increase cooling and lighting energy. Khalid et al.  [61]  used two different methods to adjust the operating temperature of low-concentration photovoltaic solar cells: 1) using argon in the concentrating element; 2) bonding a polymer dispersed liquid crystal film to the top of the module. The research results show that there is greater potential for ameliorating operating condition and lowering the cells' temperature. When the temperature of the argon filled module and the polymer dispersed liquid crystal (PDLC) integrated module were reduced by 10°C and 4°C, respectively, the power improved by 37 mW-47 mW. (3) Influence on building energy consumption 1) Vertical windows Miyazaki et al.  [62]  investigated how solar cell light transmittance and the ratio of window area to wall area affects the energy saving capacities of a double glazed BIPV window in Japan. The results indicated up to 55% energy savings in comparison to an ordinary single glazed window. Lee et al.  [63]  performed an analysis on the annual energy performance of vertical BIPV window applied to the south faç ade in an office building in Korea (shown in Fig.  12 ). The analysis indicated that the annual average yield was reduced to 1.52 h/day considering partial shading compared to 2.15 h/day for the reference without shading. Cheng et al.  [65]  researched the energy and daylight performances of double glazed BIPV window incorporating different ratio of window area to wall area, cell coverage ratios and orientations in cold regions of China by adopting a new index defined as ratio of N-Daylit area. The research results showed that when the ratio of N-Daylit area rises to 56%, the annual net power consumption of the room space was reduced to about 36.1 kWh/m 2 . Ioannidis et al.  [66]  conducted an experimental analysis on Double Skin Facades (DSF) integrating semi-transparent photovoltaics ( STPV). The study also developed the Nusselt number of the correlation coefficient and defined a heat recovery index which is distinguished from the thermal efficiency. The results showed that the heat loss of a typical building when compared with buildings integrated with DSF-STPV, may be 20% higher ( 8 W/m 2 ) in the facade area. Under different experimental conditions, the heat recovery index can increase by 30%, and the total utilization efficiency of solar energy can be between 30% and 77%. 2) Performance of applications on roof Wong et al.  [67]  simulated the potential of energy saving by BIPV roof panels for residential applications under five climates of Japan. The results indicated significant reductions in cooling and heating energy demand. Unlike previous studies, James et al.  [68]  evaluated semitransparent PV atrium connecting two administrative buildings at the University of Southampton, United Kingdom. Through a comparative analysis, it was found that an appropriate design of PV atrium could justify its cost and carbon footprint. 3) A special design of double glazed BIPV window Cook and Al-Hallaj  [69]  developed a novel BIPV window system which applied optical elements with film as solar concentrator, in Chicago, USA. The system adapted micro-facets to induce the total internal reflection as shown in Fig.  13 . Two kinds of films to PV-cell ratio were assessed and the maximum power increase was observed to be 35.1%. Fig.  13 . Cross-sectional view of proposed BIPV window  [69] . (4) Comparison with other types of glazing Compared with single glazed BIPV windows, the U-values of the double glazed BIPV windows, hence the heat gains during summer and heat losses during winter due to temperature difference between indoors and outdoors are reduced. However, compared with ordinary double glazing windows, the solar energy directly incident into the room is usually reduced due to the existence of solar cell, hence the heating load of the room will be increased. In addition, built-in louvered double pane glazing has been widely applied because of its satisfactory energy performance, flexibility and reasonable cost, the built-in louvers can be hung up during winter to allow more solar energy into the room while the built-in louvers can be dropped for shading to reduce cooling loads during summer, therefore the energy for heating and cooling can be cut down. Double pane glazing with low-e coating is also widely used for its excellent performance of thermal insulation. The overall energy performance and cost-effectiveness of double glazed BIPV windows should be compared with built-in louvered double pane glazing and low-e double pane glazing under typical climates and typical orientations, respectively. (2) Performance He et al.  [71]  experimentally and numerically studied the performance of BIPV window using a-Si PV cells in Hefei, China. The research results showed that this double glazed BIPV window had lower heat gain in comparison with single glazed BIPV window, hence a significant improvement in indoor predicted mean vote (PMV). 
 Double glazed window with ventilated air layer Peng et al.  [10]  conducted experiments on a novel double glazed BIPV faç ade including a-Si PV module in Hong Kong, China. The results revealed that SHGC could be reduced with a ventilated design. Peng et al.  [9]  also comparatively studied the thermal and energy performances of ventilated double glazed BIPV faç ades under several ventilation modes. The study found that the average SHGC of a ventilated BIPV window was the lowest while non-ventilated BIPV windows achieved the best thermal insulation effect. The electrical output of mechanical ventilation mode is greater than that of non-ventilation mode and natural ventilation mode by 3% and 1.9%, respectively. Cipriano et al.  [72]  introduced a method to analyze the effective range of existing correlations associated with the convective coefficient of heat transfer and air flowrate within laminar flow regime and transitional flow to turbulent free convection. The study also evaluated the asymmetry of wall boundary conditions that affected free-ventilated double-skin PV facades. Gaillard et al.  [73]  researched the annual energy performance of a prototype of naturally ventilated double glazed BIPV window, which was installed on the faç ade of a multi-story office building located in Toulouse, France. Chatzipanagi et al.  [74]  conducted a study on a demonstrative BIPV project with five BIPV windows, different PV cells and orientations in Lugano, Switzerland. The results of one-year monitoring showed the ventilated a-Si PV module had a lower operating temperature at slope of 90°, whereas both a-Si and c-Si based modules had their highest operating temperature at a slope of 30°. (3) Influence on building energy consumption and indoor environment Chow et al.  [70]  used EnergyPlus program to simulate the performance of ventilated double glazed BIPV windows installed on the faç ade of a typical office building located in Hong Kong. The maximum energy saving was realized with an SHGC between 45%-55%. Chow et al.  [4]  also found that, when compared with traditional single-absorptive glazing window, the novel naturally ventilated double glazed BIPV window could decrease energy consumption for air conditioning by nearly 28%. Han et al.  [75]  investigated the performance of naturally ventilated double glazed BIPV windows through experiments in Hong Kong and found that the maximum indoor air temperature of the double glazed BIPV window was nearly 29°C , which was about 5°C less than conventional faç ade. Barbosa et al.  [76]  used computational simulations to assess the energy performance of fan-assisted ventilated double glazed BIPV windows in tropical climates. The proposed design yielded an increase in electricity output, with a considerable energy saving in 'cool' climate zones than 'hot' climate zones. Yang et al.  [11]  used TRNSYS simulation tool to perform a comparative analysis for four different types of BIPV/T systems under climates of Australia. Both naturally ventilated and non-ventilated double glazed BIPV/T faç ade showed different performances in variable visible light transmittance (VLT) PV glazing. The study also found that naturally ventilated double glazed BIPV windows of lower VLT resulted in a more favorite indoor temperature in hot climates, however the non-ventilated double glazed BIPV window of higher VLT performed better for cold climates. Jia et al.  [77]  conducted experimental and simulation studies on the power generation and surface temperature of double-skin semitransparent photovoltaic (DS-STPV) windows. The energy performance of DS-STPV windows with non-ventilation, internal circulation and air supply ventilation modes were analyzed in cold areas.The three ventilation modes are shown in Fig.  16 . The research results suggested that in comparison with the other two ventilation methods, air supply DS-STPV windows can reduce the net power consumption of the building by 18.5% and 20.2%, respectively.  Preet et al.  [81]  investigated the thermal and electrical performance of photovoltaic double-layer exterior walls under different ventilation methods (natural ventilation and forced ventilation) and air holes. The results suggest that for natural ventilation systems, increasing the pore size from 50 mm to 250 mm can reduce SHGC by 12%. Similarly, for a 200 mm air chamber with a wind speed of 5 m/s, the SHGC of the forced ventilation system is reduced by 19.24%. The SHGC of a 200 mm air cavity and a forced ventilation system with a flow rate of 5 m/s is lower than 36% of the natural ventilation of the same air cavity. Compared with natural ventilation, it is found that forced ventilation has a significant impact on energy performance. Wang et al.  [82]  conducted a simulation and comprehensive analysis of the energy performance of DSF in the Yangtze River Area (YRA) which showed improved configurations, the use conditions of the blinds (up and down or slat angle) and the applicability of DSF within the studied area. The results showed that DSF (structure II, as shown in Fig.  18 ) with internal double glazing is a more suitable configuration with better thermal performance in YRA. In summer, when the angle of the shutter is 45°, DSF has the best heat dissipation performance. of the natural ventilation BIPV external wall elements and building performance indicators, such as the total heat flux inside the building and the temperature of the building wall. The results suggested that the SA results strongly rely on the various inputs selected. For narrow changes in weather conditions, the external convective heat transfer coefficient is determined to be the input that had the greatest influence on BIPV performance. The results also indicated that as the external convection heat transfer decreases, cavity ventilation plays a crucial role in energy saving. With the help of ventilated air layer, a large part of the heat from PV panels is rejected to the ambient air, hence the heat gains into the room are reduced and the electrical efficiency can be improved. However, the addition of vents complicates the design of windows, increases their cost and reduces the area of net glazing. Actually, this type of BIPV window is a special kind of double skin faç ade and it is not a double PV glazing. The whole window should be designed and operated as one device. Moreover, the dust in the air inevitably enters the ventilated air gap, some dust accumulates on the internal surface of the glazing, which may makes cleaning the glazing difficult. (2) Performance Chialastri et al.  [84]  developed a prototype for a novel double glazed BIPV/T with airflow and conducted tests under three seasons in Salinas, California. As shown in Fig.  19 , the developed prototype includes two double-glazed window components with a cavity in the middle where PV modules are located. It also featured two vents, one at the bottom of the external glazing for inflow of cold air, the other at the top used to extract hot air. The average thermal efficiency and the electrical efficiency were 31% and 7%, respectively. Charron et al.  [85]  conducted a research to optimize the design of double-skins faç ade with blinds (upper part) and PV panels (lower part) placed in the middle air cavity, in Montreal, Canada. The optimization method resulted in an overall thermal-electric efficiency of more than 60%. From the above research, it can be seen that the existence of air layer helps to improve the thermal performance of the double-layer photovoltaic window. The movement of air in the air gap takes away heat generated by the photovoltaic effect, thus reducing the operating temperature and increasing the power generation efficiency. Moreover, the solar heat gain coefficient decreases with the increase of air layer thickness. The photovoltaic modules mounted on the roof have a much higher power generation capacity than those mounted on the wall. Results show that the power generation potential of the south wall, east wall and west wall is basically the same, while the power generation of the unit roof photovoltaic modules is more than that of the wall-mounted modules. The ventilated PV roofs have higher power efficiency and lower cooling load. Therefore, it is more suitable for summer applications than ventilated photovoltaic roofs, which are more suitable for winter use because it helps to reduce the thermal load. The ventilation is better at increasing power generation and reducing solar heat gain, while non-ventilation provides better insulation. For this kind of BIPV windows, a large part of the heat from PV panels is used to heat the outdoor air flowing into the room, hence the fresh air temperature provided for the room is increased and the total energy performance can be improved significantly. They are suitable for cold climates where space heating dominates. 
 Photovoltaic vacuum glazing system (1) Configuration Fig.  20 . The structure of photovoltaic vacuum glazing system  [86] . As shown in Fig.  20 , the photovoltaic vacuum glazing system is mainly composed of external PV glazing and internal vacuum glazing. The external PV glazing is similar to single BIPV glazing. The internal vacuum glazing includes two sealed panes and the gap between them is evacuated and small support pillars are used to resist the external environmental pressure. The external PV glazing and internal vacuum glazing are usually adhered together by transparent adhesive, such as polyvinyl butyral  [86]  . (2) Performance Huang et al.  [86]  conducted numerical experiment on the thermal and power generation of a new-developed vacuum PV (VPV) glazing under climate conditions of Hong Kong as well as Harbin. In comparison to ordinary double pane glazing, the VPV glazing reduced heat absorption by nearly 82% and heat loss by nearly 32% in Hong Kong while by nearly 75% and 32% in Harbin. Considering electricity production of BIPV windows and energy for lighting, heating and/or cooling, the purchased electricity consumption of building models using different windows were shown in Fig.  21  Fig.  21  Purchased electricity consumption of building models using different windows  [86]  Qiu et al.  [87]  conducted experiments and simulations on the potential to reduce cooling loads using an innovative photovoltaic vacuum glazing system located in Hong Kong. Their analysis showed it was beneficial to apply this innovative system because of its energy saving potential. Ghosh et al.  [88]  researched the thermal performance of vacuum PV glazing and compared it with double pane PV glazing using a one-dimensional model. The comparisons indicated the BIPV vacuum glazing system results in higher room temperatures on sunny days in UK. Jarimi et al.  [89]  developed a mathematical model for PV vacuum glazing which was validated through experiments. An optimal design produced a U-value of about 0.6 W/m 2 K, which was much lower than common glazing. Huang et al.  [90]  proposed an integrated PV vacuum glass window unit and a calibrated modeling method to evaluate its heat transfer performance. Four configurations of PV vacuum glass windows were compared in terms of temperature distribution and total heat transfer coefficient. The simulation results suggested that the best performance of PV vacuum double glazing can be achieved in four configurations when both PV module temperature and U value are considered. Four types of photovoltaic vacuum glass window structures are shown in Fig  22 . Fig.  22 . Different types of PV vacuum glazing and a sample heat transfer illustration.  [90]  Experimental and theoretical studies on the thermal and electrical properties of six different glazing systems are reported by Radwan et al.  [91] . Their performance were compared with that of single glazing (SG). The results showed that the U value obtained by the VGPV (semi-transparent PV with VG) system is lower than that of the VIPPV (semi-transparent PV with translucent vacuum insulation panel system). Moisture condensation can be eliminated by using VGPV or VG (photovoltaic glazing) systems. The study concluded that VGPV and VIPPV generate relatively less electricity, but supply higher thermal insulation. Due to the absence of air inside the vacuum photovoltaic window, there is no gas conduction and convection heat transfer. Hence the vacuum photovoltaic window has excellent thermal insulation performance and can effectively block the transmission of sound. Also, the original photovoltaic glass can also play a protective role by reducing oxygen moisture erosion of photovoltaic modules. Compared to ordinary double pane glazing, the VPV glazing could heavily reduce heat gain and/or heat loss both in hot climates such as Hong Kong and very cold climates such as Harbin, China. However, further studies are needed to study the separate contribution of PV glazing and vacuum glazing to energy saving. Furthermore, the overall energy performance and benefits of VPV should be compared with vacuum glazing without PV under typical climates, such as cold climates, hot climates and temperate climates. The cost-effectiveness of addition of PV glazing to vacuum glazing are also required to be evaluated under various weather conditions in the future studies.   27 . The angle of solar radiation has an important effect on the heat transfer performance of BIPV windows, particularly the solar heat gain coefficient. In addition, the installation angle of the photovoltaic window also affects its power generation capacity to a large extent, and improper installation may lead to a sharp decrease in power generation. There are many literatures on the influence of the orientation of photovoltaic windows on its performance. The studies shows that a south facing installation can yields the maximum potential for power generation, whereas a north facing installation yields the minimum. There are relatively few studies on battery coverage and window-wall ratio but these two factors are directly related to power generation. The surface structure of the photovoltaic window directly affects its heat transfer performance, and the operating temperature also directly affects its power generation performance.The aforementioned photovoltaic windows with closed/circulating/vacuum windows are designed to improve the operating temperature of photovoltaic cells. Illustrating with silicon cells, it is observed that for every 1 degree increase in the temperature of photovoltaic cells, the power decreases by about 0.48%. It is also necessary to study the influence of climate conditions on the performance of photovoltaic windows because each region receives different solar radiation illumination, and photovoltaic windows have different wavelength absorption capacities in different ranges.  (7)        
 Summary and statistics of researches on BIPV windows 
 Outdoor PV blinds (1) PV blinds As showed in Fig.  29 , PV blinds are often installed on the exterior surfaces of building faç ade. BIPV shading blinds attach PV panels onto the upper surfaces of external shading blinds and have the advantages of solar shading and energy generation. Fig.  29 . Photograph of an outdoor PV blinds  [92] . The design of PV blinds needs to consider the cooling loads, heating loads and daylight of the building in addition to the electrical performance of PV panels. Bahr  [93]  introduced a systematic method to find the optimal parameters in the design of PV blinds. Park et al.  [94]  presented a finite element model which was validated by simulation results. The model could be utilized to investigate and assess the technical as well as economic performance of the BIPV blinds and to determine an optimal strategy to maximize the investment returns. Taveres-Cachat et al.  [92]  presented a method to optimize the design parameters of BIPV shading devices installed on the south faç ade of an office building in Norway. The optimization results showed that the designs with smaller louvres numbers were more desirable for this case study. Gao et al.  [95]  studied the application of BIPV shading blinds to maximize power generation and minimize glare during daylighting. They obtained the best rotation angles using variable-pivot and 3-DOF (degree-of-freedom) to achieve sun tracking. Meysam  [96]  studied the energy efficiency of a movable BIPV sun-shading system installed on windows. Compared with the BIPV that is fixedly installed at a distance and hung on a window, the thermal load of a building equipped with this system is reduced by 12%, 15%, and 16 respectively, and the power generation is 70% higher. The design of outdoor PV blinds provides an effective way for electricity production, shading as well as reduction of cooling loads. Compared with vertical PV glazing, the PV blinds receive more solar radiation and hence produce more electricity. Generally speaking, outdoor PV blinds are applicable for places where external shading blinds are suitable. However, due to the high cost of outdoor shading blinds, their applications are limited for the present. (2) PVT blinds Vadiee et al.  [97]  developed a solar blind system incorporating PV/T collector for a greenhouse in Shiraz, Iran (as shown in Fig.  30 ). The results indicated it is beneficial to install a solar blind system above the greenhouse roof since excess solar radiation will be absorbed and converted into useful heat and electricity. The highest thermal and electrical performance was realized at 18°C in a TRNSYS simulation. By using this same temperature set point, the cooling needs of the greenhouse were fully met while electrical demand was reduced by almost 73%. Fig.  30 . The configuration of the PVT collector in the solar blind  [97] . The design of outdoor PVT blinds provides an effective way for electricity production, hot water heating and shading as well as reduction of cooling load. The total energy efficiency is significantly increased. However, this kind of applications is very limited, because the requirement of water heating is limited than electricity production and the addition of water heating device makes the shading blinds much heavier and increases cost of the supporting system. 
 Middle PV blinds Fig.  31 . Prototype models of middle PV blinds  [98] . Fig.  31  shows a prototype model of a window with middle PV blinds. This window includes blind slats, a solar tracking device, a drive unit, and a circuit panel. The distinct feature of this window is that the upper surfaces of all the blind slats are integrated with PV panels. Kang et al.  [99]  conducted theoretical analysis on the effect of ventilation on the cooling of PV modules in double glazed BIPV shading blinds. The ventilation measure reduced the maximum temperature of PV modules and improved its electrical efficiency. Jeong et al.  [100]  introduced a novel smart PV blinds called Smart Photovoltaic System Blind (SPSB), which consist of PV panels, a monitoring device and tracking system, as shown in Fig.  30 . Koo et al.  [98]  investigated the technical, economic and political impacts of the SPSB on solar buildings towards net-zero energy in South Korea. The results showed that SPSB using CIGS-based PV panel and special two-axis tracking devices were superior to other systems in both technical and economic aspects. Hong et al.  [101]  conducted a nonlinearity analysis on the technical and economical performances of BIPV blinds incorporating shading effect. Luo et al.  [102]  proposed a novel double skin window with PV blinds which was applied on building faç ade in Changsha, China. The results indicated an efficient realization of electricity generation and reduction in sunlight penetration as well as flexible daylight control, as shown in Fig.  32 . The results of an experimental study demonstrated that the potential of energy saving of double skin windows with PV blinds can be approximately 12.2% and 25.6% when compared with traditional double-glazed window with or without blinds. Luo et al.  [103]  contrasted the performance of a double glazed BIPV shading blinds to a traditional brick wall (opaque faç ade) and double glazing (semi-transparent faç ade) in winter climates. It was found that double glazed BIPV shading blinds could reach a higher SHGC and lower U-value in non-ventilation mode. Fig.  32 . Schematic of vertical section of PVB-DSF system  [102] . The windows with middle PV blinds are promising to meet the requirement of electricity production, shading and daylight control due to the flexibility of the usage of the blinds. However, these windows are much more complicated and expensive than conventional windows. More researches are required to investigate their energy performance and economic performance under various climates. In addition, the advantages of PV blinds over ordinary blinds placed between two glazing should be verified both from perspective of energy production and cost-effectiveness for different climates.   33 . The solar window consisted of solar thermal absorbers laminated with PV cells. The absorbers were built inside a common window while reflectors were placed behind the absorber to minimize the area of PV cell. They further developed annual energy performance simulation model, the simulations by this model showed that in contrast with a vertically installed flat PV panel, this design of solar window generated approximately 35% more electricity for same cell area. In comparison to a system with a single solar collector and PV modules, the solar window required more auxiliary energy, but the required auxiliary energy was less than an ordinary heating system without a solar collector  [105] . 
 Indoor blinds with PV This design of solar window brought a new way of integration of PV/T collector and shading device. However, there are limitations to its wide application due to the complicated structure and dissatisfactory visual perception from occupants. Since large fraction of solar energy enters into the indoor space, this design is more suitable for very cold climates where space heating is dominating. 
 Summery of researches on BIPV blinds In general, studies on outdoor PV blinds and middle PV blinds exceed the number of studies on indoor blinds. The studies reviewed are shown in Table  6   This paper analyzes the performance and applicability of BIPV components and systems with regards to the three performance indicators: heat transfer, lighting and power generation. The electrical performance of BIPV windows is influenced by a number of important factors such as shadow effect, ambient temperature, building orientation, as well as PV slope and climatic conditions. Researchers take many measures to reduce the operating temperature of the photovoltaic window (such as ventilation, shading, vacuum). The performance of single-layer photovoltaic window, double-layer photovoltaic window, vacuum photovoltaic window and louver photovoltaic window is reviewed. The BIPV system can be tailored to a variety of building projects and contribute to renewable energy systems. As seen in the summary tables, experiment and simulation have been an important method of research in recent years. The advantage of the experiment is that a more intuitive and more accurate experimental data is obtained, which provides a more accurate data basis for the research and analysis of the BIPV window's heat transfer performance, lighting capacity and power output. Simulation software on the other hand can overcome the limitation of the traditional experiment and easily change the configuration of the system and the choice of the region. TRNSYS, CFD and EnergyPlus are currently the most commonly used software to study the BIPV window However, some limitations have been identified through this literature review. The following issues are proposed for future research: 1) The total area of faç ades is usually much larger compared to roofs, which provides a chance to install more PV panels hence to produce more electricity. However, the solar irradiance on the vertical faç ades is usually only a half or even less than a half of the solar irradiance on the roof, which will significantly reduce the electricity output for unit cell area. In addition, vertical windows are more likely to be shaded by peripheral buildings, which further affects the electrical and thermal performance of BIPV windows. For buildings in urban environments, shading by peripheral buildings are inevitable, hence shading impact must be taken into account in evaluation the energy performance and cost-effectiveness of BIPV windows. 2) Presently, the cover ratios of the BIPV windows are usually low in order to retain the necessary visual light transmittance. This further reduces the total electricity production per square meter. The visual perception of BIPV windows yet does not meet the aesthetic requirements of many architects and occupants. High visual light transmittance is the basic requirement of windows. Therefore, much more efforts should be taken to increase the visual light transmittance in future developments. 3) Many studies have investigated by experiments and/or simulations the energy performance of various BIPV windows in buildings located in hot climate whereas fewer studies have been conducted for buildings in other climates. The overall energy performance and influence on building energy consumption in various typical climates (hot, cold, temperate, strong or weak solar irradiation) for all types of BIPV windows/blinds should be further studied. 4) The optical, electrical and thermal performance of various individual BIPV windows has not been sufficiently studied. Particularly the dependence of VLT, SHGC and electrical efficiency on angle and spectrum of solar radiation coupled with the aging problems require further research. 
 5) Because the electricity output is low due to low solar irradiation and low cover ratio, many researches indicate that the major contribution of BIPV windows is reduction of energy consumption for heating/cooling and daylighting. However, there are many widely-used advanced glazing technologies, such as low-e coating, built-in louvers double pane glazing, vacuum double glazing and so on. The overall energy performance and cost-effectiveness of BIPV windows should be compared with these advanced glazing technologies in various typical climates (hot, cold, temperate, strong or weak solar irradiation) for all types of BIPV windows. The electricity production of BIPV window is the distinguished feature from other window technologies. Without sufficient electricity production, BIPV windows are difficult to compete with other advanced window technologies. High electrical efficiency and low cost are the keys to the success and wide application of BIPV windows. Therefore, much more efforts should be taken to improve the electrical efficiency and reduce cost in future developments. 6) Compared to BIPV windows, the BIPV blinds provide more flexibility to adjust the visual effect, hence a variation in the energy generation and solar heat gains is expected. The influence of occupants' behavior should be considered in future evaluation models of the electrical, thermal and optical performance of BIPV blinds. Fig. 2. BIPV Window classification. 
 Fung and Yang [ 29 ]Fig. 4 . 294 Fig. 4. Schematic diagram of device setting for measuring heat transfer [29]. Li et al. [30] studied the visual characteristics and economic performance (energy gains and costs) of BIPV 
 Fig. 9 . 9 Fig. 9. Schematic structure of carbon counter electrode perovskite [54].From the above review studies, it is found that there are few specific data studies on the heat transfer performance, visible light transmission performance and energy conversion efficiency of single-layer photovoltaic windows. Most studies explore the impact of integrated photovoltaic window applicationson building energy consumption. Presently the visual light transmittance is low and should be improved in future studies. Also, more efforts should be taken to increase the electrical efficiency and cut down the cost. 
 Fig. 10 . 10 Fig. 10. Schematic diagram of double glazed BIPV (a), photo of the module (b) [55]. The double glazed BIPV windows with closed air layer refer to windows equipped with closed double PV glazing. The closed double PV glazing as shown in Fig. 10 is similar to a common double glazing except that its outer pane is a single PV glazing instead of a common glass pane. It consists of a single PV glazing, an ordinary single glass pane, and an air gap sealed between the two panes. Double glazed BIPV windows generally have lower U-values than single glazed BIPV windows [55]. (2) Performance of double glazed BIPV windows Han et al. [55] conducted a numerical analysis of a closed double PV glazing with a-Si based solar cells equipped with low-e coatings. The study evaluated the heat transfer by radiation and convection, and the internal airflow patterns 
 Fig. 12 . 12 Fig.12. Interior view of BIPV windows [63] . Sun et al. [64]  developed an innovative model to evaluate both the energy and daylight performance of closed double glazed BIPV windows in office buildings under five typical climatic conditions in China. The results clearly showed that BIPV windows improved energy savings and daylight performance.Cheng et al. [65]  researched the energy and daylight performances of double glazed BIPV window incorporating different ratio of window area to wall area, cell coverage ratios and orientations in cold regions of China by adopting a new index defined as ratio of N-Daylit area. The research results showed that when the ratio of N-Daylit area rises to 56%, the annual net power consumption of the room space was reduced to about 36.1 kWh/m 2 .Ioannidis et al. [66]  conducted an experimental analysis on Double Skin Facades (DSF) integrating semi-transparent photovoltaics ( STPV). The study also developed the Nusselt number of the correlation coefficient and defined a heat recovery index which is distinguished from the thermal efficiency. The results showed that the heat loss of a typical building when compared with buildings integrated with DSF-STPV, may be 20% higher ( 8 W/m 2 ) in the facade area. Under different experimental conditions, the heat recovery index can increase by 30%, and the total utilization efficiency of solar energy can be between 30% and 77%.2) Performance of applications on roof Wong et al. [67]  simulated the potential of energy saving by BIPV roof panels for residential applications under five climates of Japan. The results indicated significant reductions in cooling and heating energy demand.Unlike previous studies, James et al. [68]  evaluated semitransparent PV atrium connecting two administrative buildings at the University of Southampton, United Kingdom. Through a comparative analysis, it was found that an appropriate design of PV atrium could justify its cost and carbon footprint.3) A special design of double glazed BIPV window Cook and Al-Hallaj [69]  developed a novel BIPV window system which applied optical elements with film as solar concentrator, in Chicago, USA. The system adapted micro-facets to induce the total internal reflection as shown in Fig.13. Two kinds of films to PV-cell ratio were assessed and the maximum power increase was observed to be 35.1%. 
 2. 4 4 Fig. 14. Schematic of PV glazing as the outer pane of BIPV window [49]. 
 Fig. 16 . 16 Fig. 16. DS-STPV window with different ventilation modes[77]. Guo et al. [78] studied the energy performance of three types of PV windows with transmittances and orientations under five climatic conditions in China. The types of PV windows are shown in Fig. 17. Under the climate of Harbin, Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, , natural ventilated double PV (NVDPV) windows integrated photovoltaic glass with 10% light transmittance provides higher energy performance than a window with a transmittance of 5%. South facing windows also minimizes electricity consumption of the building under the climate of Harbin, Beijing, Shanghai and Lhasa, In the case of Shenzhen, east-facing windows use the least electricity. 
 Fig. 17 . 17 Fig. 17 . Schematic configuration of PV windows [78] . Yang et al. [79]  conducted a detailed evaluation of the energy performance of building integrated photovoltaic thermal double skin faç ade (BIPV/T-DSF) through numerical simulations. The study included PV glass windows and three types of air cavity ventilation methods (no ventilation, natural ventilation and mechanical ventilation). By comparing different working modes and BIPV technology, the results reveal that the natural ventilation DSF integrated with perovskite-based solar cells is the best configuration to achieve the highest energy savings.Shakouri et al. [80]  used thermodynamics and heat transfer phenomena to analyze and model the temperature and velocity distribution between the exterior and interior facades, and also analyzed the energy performance of the building integrated photovoltaic thermal double-layer facade (BIPVT-DSF). The study concluded that a photovoltaic system with a peak power of 10.6 kW: (a) can generate 18,064 kWh of grid-connected electricity per year, and (b) can increase the energy performance index of existing buildings by 34.3%.Preet et al. [81]  investigated the thermal and electrical performance of photovoltaic double-layer exterior walls under different ventilation methods (natural ventilation and forced ventilation) and air holes. The results suggest that for natural ventilation systems, increasing the pore size from 50 mm to 250 mm can reduce SHGC by 12%. Similarly, for a 200 mm air chamber with a wind speed of 5 m/s, the SHGC of the forced ventilation system is reduced by 19.24%. The SHGC of a 200 mm air cavity and a forced ventilation system with a flow rate of 5 m/s is lower than 36% of the natural ventilation of the same air cavity. Compared with natural ventilation, it is found that forced ventilation has a significant impact on energy performance.Wang et al. [82]  conducted a simulation and comprehensive analysis of the energy performance of DSF in the Yangtze River Area (YRA) which showed improved configurations, the use conditions of the blinds (up and down or slat angle) and the applicability of DSF within the studied area. The results showed that DSF (structure II, as shown in Fig.18) with internal double glazing is a more suitable configuration with better thermal performance in YRA. In summer, when the angle of the shutter is 45°, DSF has the best heat dissipation performance. 
 Fig. 18 . 18 Fig. 18. Configurations of the DSF: (a) Structure I, (b) Structure II. [82] A simulation framework combining global sensitivity analysis (SA) method and multi-physical field BIPV model was proposed by Juliana et al. [83]. The sensitivity of the BIPV Windows was analyzed by investigating the performance 
 2 . 4 . 2 242 PV module between the double glazing (1) Configuration (a) Photograph of the prototype.(b) Schematic of cross section and airflow. Fig.19. PV module between the double glazing [84] . 
 ( 1 )Fig. 24 .Fig. 25 . 12425 Fig. 23. Summary of year distribution The yearly distribution of BIPV papers reviewed is shown in Fig. 23. In general, the researches on BIPV windows have increased in recent years. It is interesting that there are some peak years, such as 2009, 2013 and 2019, which are much higher than the other years.(2) Locations distribution researched 
 5 2 ) 52 Indicates that this paper introduces BIPV window specifications and performance data. Table4Summary of designs and performance of double glazed BIPV windows with closed air layer Summary of designs and performance of double glazed window with ventilated air layer In summer, the shutter angle of the shutter is 45° , DSF has the best heat 
 1 1 General descriptionBIPV shading devices integrate PV modules with shading devices to generate electricity while reducing indoor cooling demands through their shading effect. Shading devices can be classified into fixed shading panels and shading blinds. Whereas fixed shading panels are usually independent building components, shading blinds are often installed as an integral component of windows. Therefore, only BIPV shading blinds are included in this paper. According to the position of blinds, the classification of BIPV shading blinds is shown in Fig.28. 
 Fig. 28 . 28 Fig. 28. Classification of BIPV shading blinds. 
 Fig. 33 . 33 Fig. 33 . Rendering of the parabolic reflector and absorber [77] .Davidsson et al. [104]  developed a new multifunctional BIPV/T design of solar window in Sweden, as shown in Fig.33. The solar window consisted of solar thermal absorbers laminated with PV cells. The absorbers were built inside a common window while reflectors were placed behind the absorber to minimize the area of PV cell. They further developed annual energy performance simulation model, the simulations by this model showed that in contrast with a vertically installed flat PV panel, this design of solar window generated approximately 35% more electricity for same cell area. In comparison to a system with a single solar collector and PV modules, the solar window required more auxiliary energy, but the required auxiliary energy was less than an ordinary heating system without a solar collector [105] .This design of solar window brought a new way of integration of PV/T collector and shading device. However, there are limitations to its wide application due to the complicated structure and dissatisfactory visual perception from occupants. Since large fraction of solar energy enters into the indoor space, this design is more suitable for very cold climates where space heating is dominating. 
 1 )From 1 Double glazed BIPV shading blinds could reach a higher SHGC and lower U-value in non-ventilation mode 2)The potential of energy saving of double skin windows with PV blinds could be higher BIPV windows/shading blinds are promising technologies to have the function of conventional windows while providing other benefits such as shading and electricity generation. The electrical, thermal and optical performances of BIPV windows/shading blinds have received great attention in recent studies. Many studies have proved that the energy performance BIPV windows are excellent in summer and winter, hence the net electricity consumed in buildings can be reduced significantly. It is concluded that, in general, the photovoltaic window using silicon-based-solar cells have been widely studied due to mature and rapid technology advances. Hence they have high reliability, long lifespan, readily available raw materials and many other advantages. In recent years, thin film solar cells (such as cadmium telluride (CdTe), gallium arsenide (GaAs), and copper indium gallium selenium compounds (CIGS)) and new solar cells (such as dye sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), perovskite solar cells (PSCs), quantum dot solar cells (QDSCs), etc.) have been developed rapidly. The growing interest in BIPV systems has enhanced the overall development of photovoltaic cell technology, which has led to cost reductions that increase the feasibility of BIPV investments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Table 1 Summary of researches of single glazed BIPV windows Authors year Research object Main research contents Locations Baljit et al. 2016 [13] 
 Summary table of data performance on BIPV windowsTable 2 Summary of data performance on BIPV windows Summary table of researches on BIPV windows Table 3 Summary of researches of single glazed BIPV windows Window type U-value (W/m 2 K) SHGC VLT Power generation Configurational features Reference Single glazed / / 42.4% 6.64% Perovskite with clear glass [51] Window type Single glazed U-value (W/m 2 K) 5.6 SHGC 0.14 -0.33 VLT 20% Power generation 8.13% Configurational features Perovskite with clear glass Reference [54] Single glazed Single glazed Single glazed 5.08 4.80 6.1 5.08 5.10 5.254 0.289 0.413 / 0.298 0.387 0.489 9.17% 5.19% / 1.84% 4.87% 15.3% 8.02% 5.90% / 3.32% 4.43% / a-si based with clear glass c-Si based with clear glass CdTe based with clear glass c-Si based with clear glass c-Si based with clear glass a-si based with clear glass [91] [12] [87] Single glazed Double glazed / 1.67 2.14 10% 0.154 0.123 11.7% 6.91% 7.34% 6.3% 5.01% 4.75% a-si based with clear glass a-si based with clear glass c-Si based with clear glass [30] [12] Single Double glazed glazed dDouble glazed Single glazed Double glazed / 0.8 0.883 3.5 / / 0.25 / / / / 8.83% 22.5% / 10% 8% -8.5% / 1)sunny days; 15% / 2)cloudy days: less than 12% 6.3% 1)Poly-Si based with clear glass 2)Poly-Si based with rear tinted a-Si based with 6 mm air gap glazing; c-Si based with 9 mm air gap c-Si based with clear glass a-si based with clear glass [32] [56] [58] [33] [63] Single glazed Double glazed 2.7 2.584 0.12 0.354 25% 13.6% 12% / CdTe based with clear glass a-Si based with clear glass [36] [87] Single glazed Vacuum glazed Vacuum glazed Vacuum glazed / 0.557 0.60 1.2 / 0.143 / / / 12% / 30.1% / / 1):16.33%; 2): 12.63% 3): 17.02% / 4): 15.23% 4.8% / Mono-Si based under four different conditions: a-Si based with clear glass and vacuum gap 1) Front glass with Clear glass 2) Front glass with Coating glass 3) Front glass with Etching glass c-Si / a-Si based with a 4 mm hard low-E coated glass and a 0.3 mm vacuum gap 4) Front glass with Etching Coating glass intrinsic a-Si A flat solar cell with 120-nm-thick CdTe based with clear glass and vacuum gap [87] [39] [89] [91] Single glazed (5) Authors year / PV type / Approach 14% 6% Performance focused 5.3% 6.3% A flat solar cell with 180-nm-thick intrinsic a-Si A textured solar cell with an 180-nm a-Si Main findings Conditions [42] Locations Single glazed Fung and Yang 2008 [29] 2.783 Poly c-Si 0.145 0.216 0.253 Simulation and Experiment 0.316 0 10% 20% 1) Total heat gain 30% 1) Thermal and visual / / / / a-si based with different visible 1)The total heat gain mainly came from solar heat gain A whole year transmittance [48] Hong Kong China Li et al. 2009 [30] 2.603 a-Si* 0.367 0.367 Experiment 40% 40% / 6.65% Single glazed 2.412 0.220 20% 8.82% Single glazed based on different visible transmittance [43] 2.308 0.158 10% 9.91% Single glazed 5.18 0.26 0.41 20% 32% 4.9% 4.1% a-si based with clear glass [46] Single glazed 5.497 0.471 15.3% / a-si based with clear glass [47] 
 Table 6Summary of designs and performance of photovoltaic vacuum glazing system Authors year PV type Approach Performance focused Main findings Conditions Locations Huang et al. 2018 [86] Not specified Simulation 1) Thermal insulating performance 2) PV electricity generation 1) The VPV glazing reduced heat absorption by nearly 82% and heat loss by nearly 32% in Hong Kong A whole year Hong Kong, Harbin China Ghosh et al. 2019 [88] Poly c-Si Experiment 1) Thermal comfort 1) BIPV vacuum glazing system ensues in higher room temperatures on sunny days Some days in summer and winter Penryn et al. UK Qiu et al. 2019 [87] a-Si Simulation and Experiment 1) Electricity generation 2) U-value and SHGC 1) Having higher energy saving potential A whole year Hong Kong China Jarimi et al. 
 , Table7, and Table8. Table7Summary of researches of outdoor PV blinds Authors year PV type Approach Performance focused Main findings Conditions Locations 1) The highest thermal and electrical performance was Vadiee et al. 2016 [97] Not specified Simulation and Experiment 1) Thermal energy performance 2) Electrical energy gain realized at 18° C in a TRNSYS simulation 2)Installing a solar blind A whole year Shiraz Iran system above the greenhouse roof is economic Gao et al. 2018 [95] Thin film Si Simulation 1) Power generation 2) Non-glare daylighting 1) Maximize power generation and minimize glare during daylighting by obtaining the best rotation angles A whole year Shanghai et al. China 1) The designs with smaller Taveres-Cac 1) Thermal properties louvres numbers were more hat et al. CIGS Simulation 2) Optical properties desirable A whole year Nordic 2019 [92] 3) Electric generation 2) The energy converted could be improved by up to 10% Meysam 2020[96] Not specified Simulation 1) thermal load 2) electricity generatio 1)The thermal load is reduced 70% higher. 2) The power generation is A whole year Iran Table 8Summary of researches of middle PV blinds Authors year PV type Approach Performance focused Main findings Conditions Locations Kang et al. Authors year PV type Approach Performance focused Main findings Conditions Locations Bahr 2014 [93] c-Si a-Si Simulation 1) Thermal comfort 2) Visual comfort 3) Electricity generation 1)Introduced a systematic blinds. method to find the optimal parameters in the design of PV A whole year Abu Dhabi Park et al. 2016 [94] CIGS Simulation 1) Techno-economic performance 1)Presenting a finite element model A whole year Seoul South Korea
