Paper #: 2028_1
Title: High-quality organic-inorganic lead-free bismuth halide perovskite film for resistive switching memory application
Bismuth-based lead-free perovskite is one of the most popular research fields in halide perovskites. However, due to the valence of Bi 3+ , Bi-based perovskite has non-cubic crystal structure, causing the film quality poor and hindering further applications. In this work, taking advantage of long-chain organic cation, i.e., phenylethylamine cation, (PEA + ), we have fabricated high-quality bismuth halide perovskite (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film, assisted by vacuum treatment, and investigated the characteristic differences between Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 . First-principle calculation has been employed next, which distinguishes the discrepancies theoretically and confirms the experimental results. Furthermore, resistive switching memory devices based on high-quality (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film have been fabricated, and clear resistive switching behaviors are observed, showing ON/OFF ratio about 100 and retention time above 10 3 s.
Introduction Halide perovskite is a kind of novel optoelectronic material with great potentials, and has been employed into multiple applications, including solar cells, lasers, light-emitting diodes, photo-detectors, memories, etc.,  [1] . In memory devices, MAPbBr 3 exhibits robust and reproducible memory properties with large ON/OFF ratio (10 6 ) and reliable retention properties (10 4 s), and water-soluble Cs 4 PbBr 6 perovskite films are confirmed to be potential in disposable electronic memory devices  [2, 3] . Although conventional halide perovskites, e.g., MAPbX 3 or CsPbX 3 (X = Cl, Br, I), show dramatic properties in applications and draw researchers' attention worldwide, more and more people are focusing on the substitution of lead because of the toxicity and bioaccumulation  [4] . Sn 2+ has similar valence electronic configuration with Pb 2+ and has been reported wildly in many different optoelectronic devices, but suffers the oxidation to Sn 4+ , which will ruin a great quantity of excellent properties  [5] . Besides Sn 2+ substitution, hetero-valent substitutions are also considered as promising ways to achieve lead substitutions, i.e., employing Bi 3+ or Sb 3+ at Pb's site  [6] . These perovskite deriatives share a formula as A 3 B 2 X 9 and always possess zero-dimensional (0D) or 2 Materials and methods 
 Materials Phenylethylamine (PEA, 98%), N,N-Dimethylformamide (DMF, ≥ 99.9%), bismuth iodide (BiI 3 , 99%) were purchased from Aladdin. Hydroiodic acid (HI, ≥ 45 wt% in water ), diethyl ether (≥ 99.5%), isopropanol (≥ 99.7%), ethanol (≥ 95.0%) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. All these materials were used as received without any further purification. 
 PEAI synthesis 5 mL PEA and 10 mL ethanol were mixed in a ice bath. 5.5 mL HI solution was drop-wise added into the mixture solution under stirring until complete reaction. The reaction product solution was evaporated in a rotary evaporator at 50 °C to remove the solvent. The crystallized product was washed with diethyl ether three times and recrystallized in ethanol. The final product was obtained after drying in a vacuum oven at 50 °C overnight. 
 (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film and RS device fabrication Typically, 2 mmol BiI 3 and 3 mmol PEAI were dissolved into 20 mL DMF under stirring for 1 h. The solution was filtered with a 0.22 μm PTFE filter. The ITO glass or SiO 2 /Si substrates were cleaned by in ethanol, acetone, isopropanol and deionized water under ultrasonic sequentially, and dried with nitrogen. The substrates were then treated with oxygen plasma for 5 min in order to improve their hydrophilicity. The precursor solution was spin-coated on substrates at 4000 rpm for 30 s, and films were transferred into a home-built vacuum chamber pumping below 50 Pa for 5 min. After that, samples were annealed at 100 °C for 10 min. RS devices were fabricated by thermal evaporating gold as top electrode through shadow masks. 
 Measurements The surface morphology was examined with a scanning electronic microscope (SEM, Hitachi S4800), coupled with an energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) part (EDAX TEAM EDS System). The two-dimensional (2D) characteristic intrinsically  [6] . Typically, Bi-based perovskites, like Cs 3 Bi 2 X 9 , have been studied widely and successfully synthesized into single crystals, thin films, nanocrystals, and employed in solar cells, photo-detectors, etc.,  [7, 8] . Unfortunately, compared with MAPbX 3 and CsPbX 3 , relatively poor performances in optoelectronic strongly hinder the further development of Bi-based perovskites  [7, 8] . Although lead-free perovskites often show relatively inferior optoelectronic properties compared with Pb-based perovskites, they can be competitive in resistive switching (RS) memory applications  [8] . Owing fast switching, long-time retention and low energy cost, RS memory is considered as a kind of prospective non-volatile memory in the future  [9] . Briefly, under some certain value and polarization of applied voltages, RS memory can transform between low-resistance state (LRS) and high-resistance state (HRS), and the LRS and HRS will stay for a long-time. RS memory usually has a metal/insulator/metal (MIM) structure and abundant materials have been tried as the insulator layer (active layer), such as CsSnI 3 , Cs 3 Cu 2 I 5 , Cs 3 Sb 2 Br 9  [10] . Bi-based perovskite was successfully exploited as RS memory devices and outstanding RS behaviors were measured  [11] . RS devices based on Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 nanosheets were firstly fabricated in 2017, showing ON/OFF ratio about 10 3 and retention time above 10 4 s  [12] . Recently, Cs 3 Bi 2 Br 9 nanostructure/polymer composite films have been employed into RS memories, and polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) polymer enhances the cycling stability and prolongs retention time  [13] . RS memory in a FTO/ MA 3 Bi 2 I 9 /Ag structure has been applied into mimicking biological synapses  [14] . Multiple researches have proved that Bi-based perovskites are suitable for RS memories, but Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 often encounters the difficulty of fabricating high-quality thin films because of its 0D or 2D structures, which will damage the insulation of RS devices  [15] . In this work, we have utilized a kind of long-chain organic cations, i.e., phenylethylamine cation (PEA + ), to substitute Cs + and have synthesized a novel organic-inorganic Bi-based perovskite, i.e., (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 . High-quality (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film has been fabricated assisted by vacuum treatment, and it exhibits much better compactness and smoothness than the all-inorganic one. Furthermore, we have successfully fabricated RS memory device based on (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 thin-film and clear bipolar resistive switching behaviors are observed, showing ON/OFF ratio above 10 4 and retention time above 10 4 s. film crystallinity was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) on a PANalytical X-ray diffractometer (Model EMPYREAN) with a monochromatic Cu Ka1 radiation. The surface smoothness and film thickness were measured by a scanning Probe Microscope (SPM9700, Shimadzu). The absorption spectrum was collected by Cary 5000 UV-VIS-NIR, Agilent Technologies. The RS behaviors were measured by an Agilent B1500A semiconductor device analyzer with Keysight EasyExpert software. 
 Computational details Density functional theory (DFT) based on the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) generalized gradient approximation (GGA)  [16]  with interactions between ion cores and valence electrons described by the projector augmented-wave (PAW) method  [17]  as implemented in the VASP software package  [18]  was employed in the present work. Γ-centered 5 × 5 × 2 and 2 × 2 × 2 k-meshes were used to Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , respectively. The cutoff energy is 520 eV and structural optimizations were stopped when all the total forces on each atom were below 0.01 eV/Å. The convergence accuracy is 1 × 10 -5 eV. The crystal structures were visualized using VESTA  [19] . 
 Results and discussion As Fig.  1a  exhibited, Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 has a 0D structure, i.e., one Bi atom resides at the center of an octahedron composed by six iodine atoms and only two octahedra are connected by face-sharing  [11] . Each bi-octahedra [Bi 2 I 9 ] is separated by Cs atoms. Consequently, Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 films usually show rough surfaces with numerous random micro-flakes (Fig.  S1 ), and a rough surface will impede the practical applications  [15, 20] . In Fig.  1b , although Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 share the same 0D structure, the long-chain organic PEA + cations is much more flexible in crystal structure and will successfully modulate the crystallization during annealing, resulting in a much smoother surface and a compacter film. Bedsides long-chain organic cation assistance, vacuum treatment is also an excellent assistance to improve the quality of spin-coated perovskite films  [21] . As Fig.  2a  depicted, a vacuum treatment after spin-coating will remove extra solvent and avoid fast evaporation during annealing, which will damage the compactness and smoothness of films. Figure  2e  indicates that the vacuum treatment indeed improves the compactness and surface smoothness of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film dramatically, in which vacuum-treated film (right) showed a shiny and reflective surface under light, however, an obviously rougher surface was observed on the without-vacuum-treated film (left). However, in Fig.  2f , vacuum treatment did not offer much help for the Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 film because of its intrinsic crystal properties mentioned before. Figure  S1  shows the surface of Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 film with vacuum treatment contains numerous random micro-flakes, which confirms the significant contribution in film quality of long-chain organic PEA + cation  [15] . EDS mapping of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 and Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 are exhibited in Fig.  S2 , showing their chemical compositions. The surface morphology of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film was then examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), as Fig.  2b  shown. (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film has a compact pinhole-free surface with few tiny grains protuberant. A magnified SEM of is also exhibited in Fig.  S3 . The smoothness was measured via scanning probe microscope (SPM) and the SPM images was demonstrated in Figs.  2d  and S4 . Root-Mean-Square (RMS) of the whole surface in a near 12 × 12 μm 2 area is 26.664 nm, showing the good smoothness of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film. In Fig.  2c , the X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectrum shows a dominant 101 pattern with full width at half maximum (FWHM) as 0.11°, consistent with previous reported (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 solar cells  [22] . A comparison of XRD patterns of Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 is in Fig.  S5 . The optical properties of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film were studied next. In Fig.  3a , Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 have similar absorption edges near 600 nm with absorption peaks ~ 500 nm, due to their same 0D [Bi 2 I 9 ] structure playing a dominant role in optical properties. Both the indirect and direct bandgap of are (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 considered in the Tauc plots (Fig.  3b ), and the bandgap values are estimated as 2.06 and 2.26 eV, respectively. In order to further investigate the characteristic differences between Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , theoretical studies based on first-principle calculation are carried out. In the density of states (DOS) figures (Fig.  4a  and c ), it is easily found that the conduction band minimum (CBM) and the valence band maximum (VBM) are mainly contributed by 6p orbital of Bi and 5p orbitals of I in both Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 . In (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , 2p orbital of C contributes the VBM and CBM; however, Cs is irrelevant to the VBM and CBM in Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9  [22] . Band structure  indirect bandgap are 2.623 and 2.621 eV, larger than the bandgap of Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9  [22] . Almost identical direct and indirect bandgap values make it promising to improve the optoelectronic properties of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 via some band structure engineering. In addition, absorption spectra of are Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 calculated. The absorption edge of Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 is at longer wavelength than that of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , consistent with the band structure and experimental results. In MIM RS memory devices, any pinhole on the active layer will make short circuit between two electrodes and bad uniformity of film will lead performance discrepancy in different cells. Therefore, the compactness and smoothness of perovskite layer is of vital importance in RS memory devices. Compared with the Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 film with poor smoothness (Fig.  S1 ), a compact and smooth (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film is much more applicable to be employed into RS memory device. The structural schematic of MIM RS memory device is exhibited in Fig.  5a . The top electrode (TE) and bottom electrode (BE) sandwich the (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film vertically, constituting the MIM structure mentioned before. We employed indium tin oxide (ITO) glass as BE and thermally evaporated gold as TE, constructing a Au/(PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 /ITO/glass structure. The TE is circle with a diameter of 1 mm, and the thickness of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film employed into resistive switching devices is around 150 to 250 nm, measured by SPM. The resistive switching behaviors have been studied by semiconductor device analyzer and probes. During test, the BE is grounded and direct current voltage sweeping is applied on TE. The voltage sweeps sequence is 0 → 4 V → -4 V → 0 V. Avoiding an irreversible breakdown of device, a current compliance (10 -2 A) is set during the positive-bias sweeps. As exhibited in Fig.  5b , clear bipolar RS behaviors are observed. Unlike unipolar RS memory, whose switching direction only depends on the amplitude of applied voltage, bipolar RS direction depends on both the amplitude and polarity of applied voltage  [23] . In positive voltage sweep from 0 to 2 V, the current is rather small and device is in HRS. When voltage reach 2 V, the current increase shapely and reach current compliance. This abrupt change from HRS to LRS is called setting, and the change point in voltage is called setting voltage. The current keeps constant as 10 -2 A with the increase of sweep voltage. In positive voltage sweep from 4 to 0 V, quite small resistance is observed, which means the device is in a well-maintained LRS. However, when a negative voltage sweep is applied, the current decreases sharply near -1.5 V, showing a surge in resistance. This abrupt change from LRS to HRS is called reset, and the change point in voltage is called reset voltage. The resistance keeps high in voltage sweep from -4 to 0 V. The semilogarithmic I-V curves shows the resistance ratio of HRS and LRS (ON/OFF ratio) is above 10 3 . In order to deeply study the RS behaviors and conduction mechanisms of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , we have linearly fitted the positive sweep curves (Fig.  5c ). In the beginning of sweep, with voltage increasing from 0.1 to 0.6 V, (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 in HRS shows an ohmic conductivity and I-V curve slope is about 1.26. The fitted slope increases to 2.76 with sweep continuing. I-V curve obeying cubic law (I-V 3 ) indicates that (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 is in a space-charge limited current (SCLC) regime  [24] . In the as fabricated (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 crystal, like most of iodide perovskites, abundant iodide vacancies are evenly distributed, becoming traps of electrons  [25] . In the ohmic conductivity region, most of the traps are unfilled and ohmic conduction law is dominant  [26] . With voltage increasing, lots of traps are filled with electrons, which become space charges, and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 goes into SCLC region  [27] . After enough traps are filled, the resistance decreases sharply and current suddenly arise with the increase of applied voltage, suggesting (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 convert to LRS. The SCLC conduction is wildly observed in perovskite based RS memories, like MAPbBr 3 , CsSnI 3 , (CH 3 NH 3 ) 3 Bi 2 I 9 , etc.,  [28] . In the reverse voltage sweep, the fitted slope is about 1.03 and LRS is well-kept in (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 . As exhibited in Fig.  5d , the mechanism of RS memory can be attributed to the filamentary conduction. Iodide vacancy can easily occur in halide perovskites and shows a deep defect energy level (Fig.  S6 ), which is benefit to conduction  [29, 30] . Under positive voltage sweep, the iodide vacancy will be driven and accumulated, and filaments are constructed gradually. When filaments construction are completed, connection between TE and BE will show a relative low-resistance through vacancy filaments, causing the transition from HRS to LRS. In the meantime, under negative voltage sweep, the iodide vacancy will be driven in different direction and filaments are destructed, leading the transition from LRS to HRS at some certain voltage  [30] . In order to estimate the stability of Au/(PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 /ITO RS memory device, I-V sweep above 100 cycle is carried out and the result is shown in Fig.  6a . It is observed that both resistances of LRS and HRS increase with the cycles, and ON/OFF ratios are kept well. Retention measurement above 1000 s is exhibited in Fig.  6b , proving its good ability keeping HRS and LRS. In addition, as illustrated in Fig.  6c , distribution of HRS and LRS for 10 newly fabricated devices shows consistency of cells, and set/reset voltage distributions is shown in Fig.  6d .  Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 Crystal structure images of a Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and b (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 
 Fig. 2 a 2 Fig. 2 a Fabrication procedure of the highquality (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film with vacuum treatment. b Top-view SEM image of the (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film. c XRD pattern of the (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film. d SPM image of the (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film. e (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 films without (left) and with (right) vacuum treatment. f Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 (left) and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 (right) films, both with vacuum treatment 
 Fig. 3 aFig. 4 34 Fig. 3 a Absorption spectra of Cs 3 Bi 2 I 9 and (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 films. b Tauc plots of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 film assuming indirect (left) and direct (right) bandgaps, respectively 
 Fig. 5 a 5 Fig. 5 a Structural schematic of the Au/(PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 /ITO RS memory device. b Semilogarithmic I-V curves of set and reset. c Measured and fitted logI-logV in positive sweep. d Schematic diagram of migration of iodide vacancy 
 Fig. 6 6 Fig. 6 Endurance (a) and retention (b) test of (PEA) 3 Bi 2 I 9 -based RS device. c Distribution of HRS and LRS for 10 devices. d Distribution of set and reset voltages
