Paper #: 1066_1
Title: High Efficiency Tin Halide Perovskite Solar Cells with Over 1 Micrometer Carrier Diffusion Length
Sn 2+ oxidation and halide migration are recognized as the major constraints for high-performance tin halide perovskite solar cells (TPSCs), as they increase the defect state density and thus decrease the carrier lifetime and diffusion length. In this study, two chloride salts of thiophene derivatives are reported to interact with Sn 2+ through ligand bonding and immobilize halide ions through hydrogen bonding. Due to the stronger interactions between 1-(2-thiophene)ethylamine hydrochloride (ğœ¶-TEACl) and the perovskite components, better defect passivation is realized. In addition, thanks to the coordination ability, the lattice stability of tin perovskite is enhanced, and the photoluminescence carrier lifetime and carrier diffusion length are substantially extended from 4.51 ns and 180.78 nm to 23.17 ns, and 1102.20 nm, respectively, which are both among the highest reported values for tin halide perovskites. Consequently, the target device with ğœ¶-TEACl achieved a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of up to 14.02%. At the same time, the ğœ¶-TEACl device showed excellent long-term operational stability, retaining â‰ˆ92% of the initial efficiency after 2000 h aging in the N 2 atmosphere. This work provides a new perspective for regulating the defect passivation and ion migration in lead-free tin halide perovskites.
Introduction Metal halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) stand out among thirdgeneration photovoltaic technologies due to their low cost, high absorption coefficients, direct optical bandgap, and excellent power conversion efficiency (PCE).  [1] [2] [3] 4]  To date, lead halide PSCs with a PCE of up to 26.9% have been achieved.  [5]  However, lead is toxic and is not conducive to environmental sustainability and large-scale implementation of PSCs.  [6]  Tin halide perovskite solar cells (TPSCs) have many advantages such as environmental friendliness, high carrier mobility, and excellent energy bandgap (1.3-1.4 eV),  [7, 8, 9]  but its PCE (â‰ˆ15%) still lags far behind that of lead-based PSCs, which can be attributed to the higher defect DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202410772 density of tin halide perovskites as well as the shorter carrier diffusion length.  [10]  Noel et al. demonstrated that the carrier diffusion length is negatively correlated with the p-type self-doping density by experimental studies and theoretical calculations in tin perovskites.  [11]  The large number of Sn vacancy defects formed by the easy oxidation of Sn 2+ to Sn 4+ is one of the main reasons for the monopole p-type feature.  [12]  Oxidation not only generates more p-type self-doping defects in tin perovskite crystals but also leads to the structural transformation of perovskite crystals, which affects the carrier transport and causes energy loss.  [13, 14]  Meanwhile, various defects can act as ion migration channels and accelerate lattice degradation to affect the longterm stability of TPSCs.  [15, 16]  Therefore, inhibition of Sn 2+ oxidation and halide anion migration to reduce defect density is essential to obtain long carrier lifetimes and diffusion lengths. For instance, Kanatzidis et al. doped SnF 2 into MASnI 3 thin films, which led to a reduction in the formation energy of Sn vacancy defects, and ultimately obtaining fluorescence lifetimes 10 times higher than the original and carrier diffusion lengths in excess of 500 nm.  [17]  Li et al. exploited acrylamide (AM) and acrolein (AE) to achieve a combined effect in enhancing the oxidation resistance of tin halide perovskite and suppressing Anderson localization in the crystal structure, resulting in a significant prolongation of the carrier diffusion length from 195.9 to 458.9 nm.  [18]  Han et al. suppressed iodide migration and reduced the density of defect states by adding polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) to form hydrogen-bonding interactions with FASnI 3 , which led to the extension of the carrier lifetime of the films and a significant reduction in the hysteresis coefficient of the devices.  [19]  Although much progress has been made, it is still imperative to further improve the efficiency and stability of TPSCs through Sn 2+ oxidation control and ion migration inhibition. Herein, the effect of two thiophene derivatives on the defect passivation and carrier dynamics of tin halide perovskite was systematically investigated. 1-(2-thiophene)ethylamine hydrochloride (ğ›¼-TEACl) and 2-thiophene ethylamine hydrochloride (TEACl) were applied as precursor additives. Owing to the similar molecular structure and number of functional groups, these two molecules are both able to interact with the uncoordinated Sn 2+ as well as form hydrogen bonds with the halide anions, thus achieve the goal of hindering the oxidation of Sn 2+ and inhibiting the migration of the halide ions. The lattice stability of tin perovskite was improved and a large number of defects in the tin perovskite films were passivated. Importantly, the ğ›¼-TEACl passivation extended the photofluorescence lifetime and carrier diffusion length to 23.17 ns and 1102.20 nm, respectively. Consequently, the target device with ğ›¼-TEACl achieved an opencircuit voltage (V oc ) of 0.95 V and a PCE over 14%. In addition, the unencapsulated target device shows excellent long-term stability, retaining 92.31% of the initial PCE after 2000 h of storage in the N 2 atmosphere. This study highlights the importance of simultaneous oxidation modulation and ion immobilization for the preparation of efficient and stable TPSCs. 
 Results and Discussion In this study, two chloride salts of thiophene derivative isomers (ğ›¼-TEACl and TEACl) were selected as precursor additives, and the specific chemical structures are shown in Figure  S1  (Supporting Information). The location of the amino group (-NH 3 + ) in ğ›¼-TEACl and TEACl affect the spatial distance of -NH 3 + from the S atom. DFT calculations show (Figure  1a ) that the spatial distance of -NH 3 + from S in ğ›¼-TEA + is 4.126 Ã…, while the spatial distance of -NH 3 + from S in TEA + is 4.904 Ã…. Furthermore, the S atom makes the thiophene ring an electron-rich unit with an electron-donating effect that can increase the electron cloud density near -NH 3 + . According to the field effect theory, the S atom in ğ›¼-TEACl have a smaller interaction distance with -NH 3 + compared to TEACl, so the electron cloud density near -NH 3 + in ğ›¼-TEACl is greater, which would favor the interactions with perovskite components.  [20]  The high density of defects is mainly caused by oxidation of Sn 2+ and migration of halide anions (Figure  1b ).  [21]  To assess the degree of oxidation of perovskite films, the Sn 2+ /Sn 4+ ratio in different films were examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Figure  1d -g; Table  S1 , Supporting Information). Sn 4+ accounted for 40.21% in the control film, indicating that a large degree of Sn 2+ is oxidized to Sn 4+ with the formation of a large number of tin vacancy defects.  [22]  In contrast, the Sn 4+ ratios in the films with TEACl and ğ›¼-TEACl were drastically reduced to 22.84% and 9.62%, respectively. This undoubtedly indicated the oxidation of Sn 2+ was inhibited, which helped to reduce the defect density in the perovskite films. Notably, the incorporation of ğ›¼-TEACl inhibited oxidation the most, which may be due to the stronger ligand interaction between ğ›¼-TEACl and SnI 2 . Since the oxidation energy barrier of I -(0.53 V) is higher than that of Sn 2+ (0.15 V), the oxidation of I -(3I -â‡‹I 3 -+2e -) occurs after Sn 2+ (Sn 2+ â‡‹Sn 4+ + 2e -), and we can determine the degree of oxidation by the amount of I 2 /I 3 -in the perovskite films (Figure  1h-k ).  [23]  Compared with the control films (20.67%), the I 2 /I 3 -ratios in TEACl and ğ›¼-TEACl films were decreased to 12.72% and 7.88%, respectively, indicating that the oxidation of I -was also inhibited to the formation of iodine-associated defects. This was probably due to the hydrogen-bonding interactions of the additives with halides in the perovskite films. As we know, a large amount of I -and Sn 2+ ions will diffuse to the silver electrode through the electron transport layer (ICBA) and the protective layer (BCP), leading to severe corrosion of silver, so the inhibition of ionic migration is very important for the preparation of highly stable TPSCs.  [24]  Scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray energy spectroscopy (SEM-EDS) analysis was used to determine the migration of ions in aged TPSCs. After one-sun irradiation for 6 h, we detected the contents of I and Sn on the BCP surface for evaluating the ion migration in the devices. Semi-quantitative analysis of the elemental content (Figure  1c ; Figure  S2 , Supporting Information) shows that the I ratio on the BCP surface of the TEACl and ğ›¼-TEACl devices was reduced to 6%, and the Sn ratio was reduced to 11% and 10%, respectively. In contrast, the I and Sn ratio on the BCP surface of the control devices were 10% and 12%, respectively. The migration of I -and Sn 2+ in the device was obviously inhibited, which may be related to the strong ionic immobilization ability of the additives in perovskite films.  [25]  Next, we investigated the influence of thiophene derivatives on the surface morphology of tin perovskite films. Field emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed irregular grain arrangement and smaller grain size in the control films (Figure  2a-c ). The films treated with thiophene derivatives showed larger grain size, shallower grain boundaries and higher homogeneity. The atomic force microscopy (AFM) patterns (Figure  S3 , Supporting Information) shows that the root-meansquare (RMS) roughness of ğ›¼-TEACl film is 4.99 nm, which is lower than that of the control (9.31 nm) and TEACl (6.22 nm) films, which is favourable for suppressing non-radiative recombination and facilitating carrier transport.  [26]  In addition, conductive atomic force microscopy (c-AFM) (Figure  2d-f ) showed that the films passivated by thiophene derivatives exhibited higher spatial currents than the control films under the same applied voltage, which was mainly attributed to larger grains and smaller defect density in the latter films. More importantly, higher spatial current values has been observed in the ğ›¼-TEACl films compared to TEACl films, which was mainly related to the homogeneous and dense film morphology of ğ›¼-TEACl films. The high charge conductivity of ğ›¼-TEACl films is favorable for carrier transport.  [27]  The crystallinity and lattice stability of perovskite was further probed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and UV-vis absorption spectroscopy. The three characteristic peaks at 14.3, 28.6, and 43.2Â°in the XRD spectra (Figure  2g ) can be assigned to the (100), (200), and (300) crystal planes of tin perovskite, respectively. The crystallinity of tin perovskite films was increased after treatment with thiophene derivatives. The half-width at maximum (FWHM, Figure  S4 , Supporting Information) of the control film was larger than the films with TEACl and ğ›¼-TEACl, indicating that the crystallinity of the perovskite films was improved with the additives. We also calculated the microstrain (ğœ–, Figure  2h ; Figure  S5 , Supporting Information) from the XRD spectra. It can be seen that the ğ›¼-TEACl film showed the smallest microstrain, indicating the smallest lattice distortion and the most stable crystal structure. It is favorable for carrier transport and prolongs the carrier lifetime.  [28, 29]  The absorption spectra of the three films (Figure  S6 , Supporting Information) are almost overlapped, indicating that the thiophene derivatives hardly change the bandgap of perovskite. The Urbach energy (E u ) was further calculated from the UV-vis absorption results. As shown in Figure  2i , the E u of perovskite tends to decrease with the addition of thiophene derivatives, and the ğ›¼-TEACl film shows the lowest E u of 36.63 meV. The smaller value of E u indicates that the perovskite film has lower energetic disorder, fewer structural defects, and higher lattice stability, which will promote carrier transport.  [26, 30]  We speculated that the increased lattice stability of perovskite with ğ›¼-TEACl was related to the strong interactions of perovskite components with thiophene derivatives. The chemical interactions between the two passivation and the perovskite components were analyzed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) tests and 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) tests. The results of FTIR tests suggested (Figure  3a, b ) that the N-H vibrational signals of the passivation were shifted to higher wave numbers (grey part of the figure) after mixing with SnI 2 , indicating that the thiophene derivatives has a strong coordination interaction with SnI 2 .  [31]  As shown in Figure  S7  (Supporting Information) for the FTIR pattern of perovskite film powder, the N-H characteristic peaks of ğ›¼-TEACl are much more shifted, indicating that N-H forms stronger hydrogen-bonding with halides (N-H-X).  [32]  In addition, the characteristic peaks of the thiophene ring of the thiophene derivatives are more shifted, suggesting that the electronrich thiophene ring also interacts with Sn 2+ , which can assist the -NH 3 + in defect passivation.  1  H NMR tests also showed (Figure  3c, d ) that the proton signals of the -NH 3 + group of ğ›¼-TEACl were more shifted along the low-field direction (Î”ğ›¿ = 0.44 ppm) after mixing with the SnI 2 powder, which again verified that the interaction of -NH 3 + of ğ›¼-TEACl with SnI 2 was stronger.  [33]  This may be associated to the electron-donating effect of the thiophene ring with an increased electron cloud density in the vicinity of -NH 3 + . However, due to the different locations of -NH 3 + , the two cations have different spatial distances of -NH 3 + from the thiophene S (Figure  1a , ğ›¼-TEA + : 4.126 Ã…; TEA + : 4.904 Ã…). According to the field effect theory, the S atom of ğ›¼-TEA + has a smaller interaction distance with -NH 3 + through space compared to TEA + , so the density of the electron cloud in the vicinity of -NH 3 + is greater, which will enhance its interaction with Sn 2+ .  [20]  To further confirm the interaction between the perovskite component and the two passivation, we performed X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Figure  3e, f ). Both Sn 3d 3/2 and Sn 3d 5/2 peaks of the control perovskite film were shifted after passivation, suggesting that ğ›¼-TEACl and TEACl can give electrons to the under-coordinated Sn 2+ , which would help to immobilize Sn 2+ , inhibit the oxidation of Sn 2+ , as well as improve the lattice stability.  [34]  This conclusion was also verified in the N 1s spectra (Figure  S8 , Supporting Information). As demonstrated in Figure  3f , the I 3d spectrum of the perovskite film was also shifted after passivation in comparison to the control film, thus confirming the interaction of halides with ğ›¼-TEACl and TEACl through hydrogen bonding. Such an interaction could immobilize iodide ions in the perovskite lattice and inhibit the iodide migration, further reducing the formation of associated iodine defects.  [35]  In order to further analyze the defect density of the perovskite film quantitatively, electron-only devices with the configuration of ITO/SnO 2 /perovskite/ICBA/Ag have been prepared. From the space charge limiting current (SCLC) plot (Figure  4a ), it can be seen that the trap fill voltage (V TFL ) values increased from the control device (0.20 V), to TEACl device (0.26 V), and ğ›¼-TEACl device (0.37 V), respectively. The value of defect density was reduced from 3.55 Ã— 10 16 cm -3 (control device) to 2.50 Ã— 10 16 cm -3 (TEACl device) and 1.92 Ã— 10 16 cm -3 (ğ›¼-TEACl device), respectively. This result suggests that ğ›¼-TEACl can better passivate film defects, which is conducive to the reduction of energy loss and higher open-circuit voltage (V oc ) for TPSCs.  [36]  The carrier dynamics of the perovskite films were further investigated by steady-state photoluminescence (PL) and timeresolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectroscopy (Figure  4b, c ). The PL intensity of the control film increased after the passivation with TEACl or ğ›¼-TEACl. The enhanced PL intensity indicated that passivation with ğ›¼-TEACl can suppress the defect-induced non-radiative recombination more effectively than TEACl.  [37]  The TRPL spectra (Table  S2 , Supporting Information) were fitted using a biexponential function, and the decay time of ğ›¼-TEACl films was substantially prolonged, with an average decay time as long as 23.17 ns, which was among the highest PL lifetime values in recent studies.  [38] [39] [40] [41] 42]  We further investigated the carrier transport behaviors using intensity-modulated photovoltage (IMVS) and photocurrent spectra (IMPS, Figure  4d ; Figure  S9 , Supporting Information). The charge transport time (ğœ tr ), charge recombination time (ğœ rec ), charge collection efficiency (ğœ‚), carrier diffusion coefficient (D) and diffusion length (L D ) were calculated for different devices. The specific calculation results were shown in Table  S3  (Supporting Information). The ğ›¼-TEACl device has a smaller ğœ tr , a larger ğœ rec , and ğœ‚, indicating better carrier extraction and transport, and suppressed carrier recombination. The L D of the ğ›¼-TEACl device reached 1102.20 nm, which was not only much larger than the thickness of the perovskite layer (â‰ˆ170 nm; Figure  S10 , Supporting Information), but also corresponds to 6 times of magnitude than the control device (180.78 nm).  [43]  Furthermore, the carrier diffusion length of advanced TPSCs are summarized in Figure  4e  and Table  S4  (Supporting Information), where it can be seen that the carrier diffusion length of the ğ›¼-TEACl-treated devices are in the leading position.  [10, 11, 17, 18, [43] [44] [45] [46] 47]  The positive effects of the thiophene derivatives on the carrier dynamics of the perovskite films might originate from the inhibited oxidation of Sn 2+ , reduced p-type self-doping, and the decrease of the disorder of the perovskite lattice and the reduction of the grain boundaries. Inverted TPSCs were fabricated to evaluate the photovoltaic performance (Figure  5a ; Table  S5 , Supporting Information). Under forward scanning, the ğ›¼-TEACl device achieved a maximum PCE of up to 14.02%, with a V oc of 0.95 V, a short-circuit current density (J sc ) of 21.23 mA cm -2 , and a fill factor (FF) of 69.33%. The photovoltaic parameters were much higher than those of the control device (PCE: 10.50%, V oc : 0.77 V, J sc : 19.81 mA cm -2 , and FF: 69.22%) and the TEACl device (PCE: 13.21%, V oc : 0.91 V, J sc : 21.18 mA cm -2 , and FF: 68.39%). It can be seen that the increase of PCE for the ğ›¼-TEACl device was mainly originated from the reduction of V loss , while the decrease in V loss is mainly due to the decrease in defect density of perovskite films. Figure  5b  displayed that the steady-state output efficiency of the ğ›¼-TEACl device was 12.87%, and the current density at the maximum power point (MPP) was 17.10 mA cm -2 , both of which was much higher than that for the control and TEACl devices. Figure  5c  showed the external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra of the devices, where the spectral response of the ğ›¼-TEACl device and the TEACl device exhibited notable enhancement relative to the control device. The integrated current densities (J int ) was 21.19, 20.77, and 19.57 mA cm -2 for the ğ›¼-TEACl device, TEACl device, and the control device, respectively. We also fabricated 20 independent devices for each condition to confirm that the reproducibility of the devices (Figure  5d ; Figure  S11 , Supporting Information). Finally, the effects of thiophene derivatives on the humidity, thermal stability and long-term stability of the devices are investigated. First, water contact angle measurements were investigated (Figure  S12 , Supporting Information). The contact angles of both ğ›¼-TEACl (63.9Â°) and TEACl (55.0Â°) films were increased compared to the control film (39.2Â°), suggesting that the thiophene derivatives can inhibit the penetration of water from the surface of the perovskite film.  [48]  As a result, the ğ›¼-TEACl device exhibited good air stability at 55%-65% relative humidity (RH) (Figure  S13 , Supporting Information). After 72 h exposure in air, the ğ›¼-TEACl device was still able to maintain 60.30% of its initial PCE, while the control and TEACl devices were only able to maintain 36.02% and 54.14% of their initial PCEs, respectively. Next, thermal stability was tracked by heating the TPSC devices at 85 Â°C on a hotplate in a nitrogen-filled glove box (Figure  S14 , Supporting Information). After 240 h, the efficiency of the ğ›¼-TEACl device could be maintained at 87.26% of the initial efficiency, while that of the control device decreased to 61.70% of the initial efficiency. We further monitored the performance changes of the TPSC devices in N 2 atmosphere for up to 2000 h (Figure  5e ). After 2000 h, the PCE of the unencapsulated ğ›¼-TEACl device, the TEACl device and the control device were maintained at 92.31%, 89.48%, and 64.01% of the initial values, respectively, thus confirming that the passivation of the thiophene derivatives could improve the device long-term stability. 
 Conclusion We report an effective passivation strategy with thiophene derivatives to construct highly efficient and stable TPSCs. The thiophene derivatives not only inhibit the ion migration through hydrogen bonding with halide anions, but also passivate defects by interacting with uncoordinated Sn 2+ , which improves the quality of the tin halide perovskite films and facilitates the charge separation, extraction and collection. The interaction between ğ›¼-TEACl and the perovskite components was stronger, thus delivering an excellent PCE of 14.02%, a PL lifetime of 23.17 ns, and a carrier diffusion length of 1102.20 nm. In addition, the ğ›¼-TEACl devices www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de retained â‰ˆ92% of the initial efficiency after aging in N 2 for 2000 h. This work underscores the simultaneous inhibition of Sn 2+ oxidation and ion migration with suitable passivators is essential for the preparation of highly efficient TPSCs. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. a) The electrostatic potential map of ğ›¼-TEA + and TEA + ; b) Schematic diagram of antioxidant and inhibition of ion migration; c) The elemental ratio of Sn and I on BCP surfaces by EDS.d-f) Sn 3d XPS spectra, and h-j) I 3d XPS spectra for the control perovskite films, and with TEACl, ğ›¼-TEACl, respectively. Area ratios of g) Sn 2+ and Sn 4+ , and k) I -and I 2 /I 3 -for the three films. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. SEM images a-c), c-AFM images d-f). XRD patterns g) of the control, TEACl, and ğ›¼-TEACl films, respectively. Calculated microstrain h) and Urbach energy i) of the control, TEACl, and ğ›¼-TEACl perovskite films, respectively. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. FTIR spectra of a) ğ›¼-TEACl and the complex of ğ›¼-TEACl and SnI 2 and b) TEACl and the complex of TEACl and SnI 2 . 1 H NMR spectra of c) ğ›¼-TEACl and the complex of ğ›¼-TEACl and SnI 2 and d) TEACl and the complex of TEACl and SnI 2 . They are directly dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide-d 6 (DMSO-d 6 ) solvent for measurement. Sn 3d e), and I 3d f) XPS spectra of perovskite films without and with TEACl, ğ›¼-TEACl, respectively. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) SCLC plots of electron-only devices with the structure indicated in the insets; b) PL spectra, and c) TRPL spectra of perovskite films. d) Calculated ğœ tr , ğœ rec , ğœ‚, D, and L D for the control, TEACl, and ğ›¼-TEACl devices; e) Summary of reported carrier diffusion length for advanced TPSCs. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. a) J-V curves of the TPSCs devices without and with TEACl, ğ›¼-TEACl under forward scans; b) Steady power output of devices without and with TEACl, ğ›¼-TEACl; c) Integrated current densities and IPCE spectra for the devices without and with TEACl, ğ›¼-TEACl; d) The V oc box diagram of 20 independent control, TEACl, and ğ›¼-TEACl devices; e) Long-term stability of the control, TEACl, and ğ›¼-TEACl devices at room temperature in N 2 atmosphere. 
			 Adv. Funct. Mater. 2024, 34, 2410772 Â© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 Adv.Funct. Mater. 2024, 34, 2410772 Â© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2410772 (5 of 8) 16163028, 2024, 52, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202410772 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv.Funct. Mater. 2024, 34, 2410772 Â© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2410772 (7 of 8) 16163028, 2024, 52, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202410772 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
