Paper #: 408_1
Title: Interfacial defects passivation and energy level alignment with small molecule pyridine material for efficient and stable inverted perovskite solar cells
Unavoidable charge defects at the interface are major bottlenecks in improving the performance of inverted perovskite solar cells (PSCs). Interfacial engineering for interfacial defect passivation is a promising approach for minimizing interfacial defects. In this study, the small molecule 2,6-lutidine (2,6-Lu), incorporating [6,6]-phenyl C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), was established as an electron transport layer (PCBM: 2,6-Lu ETL) to minimize charge defects at the upper interface of the perovskite. After a series of experimental tests, we confirmed that the -N-groups in 2,6-Lu could immobilize uncoordinated Pb 2+ to passivate charge defects. Furthermore, the designed ETL induced a favorable energy level between the perovskite and ETL layers, boosting charge transfer and reducing charge recombination. Therefore, the inverted PSCs with the designed ETL exhibited a remarkable power conversion efficiency of 19.93 % with an outstanding long-term ambient stability of 30 d, which was ascribed to interfacial defect passivation and suitable energy level alignment.
Introduction Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have received extensive attention from researchers owing to their high power conversion efficiency (PCE), simple fabrication process, and low cost  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . To date, the highest certified PCE of single-junction PSCs exceeds 25 %  [6] . However, there are ineluctably large numbers of interfacial defects between the perovskite and charge-transport layers, which significantly reduce the performance of the device  [7, 8] . Interfacial defects usually restrict charge transfer, decrease the stability of the perovskite film, and result in an adverse energy-level match  [9] . Therefore, the management of interfacial defects enhances the efficiency and stability of PSCs. Interface engineering is a compelling strategy for passivating and healing interfacial defects to enhance the performance of PSCs. To date, numerous attempts at interface processing have been reported. For example, the Snaith group found that sulfur or nitrogen atoms in an electron-rich molecule can transfer electrons to Lewis acid Pb coordination covalent bonds and form adducts. Zuo et al.  [10]  studied the polymer poly(4-vinylpyridine) (PVP) as a dopant and found that the pyridine groups contained in PVP can form large binding energy coordination bonds with the perovskite film (or Pb 2+ ), which is conducive to trap state passivation of the perovskite. Huang et al.  [11]  designed and synthesized a series of compounds by polymerizing thiophene groups on dithieno[3,2-a:3′,2′-j]  [5, 6, 11, 12]  chrysene diimides (DTCDI), which exhibited excellent interface passivation and lower trap state density after doping into the electron transport layer. Chiang et al.  [12]  incorporated  [6, 6] -Phenyl C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) into a perovskite precursor, filled pinholes and vacancies in the light-absorbing layer, and obtained high-quality films  [13] . In addition, many researchers have attempted to modulate the interfacial energy-level structure to enhance the charge transfer. By introducing tris (pentafluorophenyl)boron (TPFPB) as the interface modification layer, Li et al. effectively improved the interface performance, accelerated charge transfer, and increased the PCE from 16.92 % to 19.41 %. Wang et al.  [14]  used 3-dimethyl-2-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-benzoimidazole (DMBI) to modify the surface of perovskites, which significantly improved charge transfer and reduced the energy-level shift, thus inhibiting charge recombination. Xiong et al.  [15]  found that tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate (TBAPF 6 ) can modify the energetics in perovskites, passivate surface defects, and change the energy level of the perovskite interface, achieving a PCE of more than 20 %. Cheng et al.  [16]  added the small organic molecule Y6 to the ETL, which improved the electron extraction capability of perovskite solar cells and the energy level arrangement of the interface and significantly improved the V OC and J SC . Shaikh et al.  [17]  designed and synthesized the novel dithiafulvenyl (DTF)-naphthalenediimide (NDI) derivatives DS1 and DS2. The energy bandgap was reduced, resulting in a higher PCE  [18] . Therefore, passivating the interfacial charge defects and simultaneously adjusting the interfacial energy-level structure are meaningful strategies for enhancing the performance of PSCs. Herein, we fabricated an ETL for PSCs by doping PCBM with a simple small organic molecule, 2,6-lutidine  (2, . The results show that the designed ETL (PCBM: 2,6-Lu ETL) is conducive to simultaneously regulating the interfacial defects and energy-level alignment of PSCs. Systematic experimental characterization showed that 2,6-Lu chelates with uncoordinated Pb 2+ via the -N-groups passivate charge defects. Furthermore, a more suitable energy-level arrangement is formed, improving interfacial charge transfer and reducing charge recombination. Consequently, the PCE of the inverted PSCs with the designed ETL reached 19.93 %, with a high fill factor of over 80 %. The inverted PSCs with the designed ETL also retained more than 80 % of their initial efficiency after 30 d of storage in ambient air. This study emphasized the synergistic effect of interfacial defect passivation and energy-level alignment to improve the efficiency and stability of PSCs further. 
 Experimental section 
 Materials Lead iodide (PbI 2 , 99.99 %, Sigma-Aldrich), CH 3 NH 3 I (MAI, 99.50 %, Advanced Election Technology Co., Ltd), Poly[bis(4-phenyl) (2,4,6trimethylphenyl) amine] (PTAA, > 99 %, Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp),  [6, 6] -Phenyl C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM, 99.50 %, Aladdin), 2,6-Lutidine (2,6-Lu, 98 %, Shanghai Macklin Biochemical Co. Ltd), bathocuproine (BCP, >99 %, Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp), N, N-Dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.80 %, anhydrous, J&K Seal), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 99.80 %, anhydrous, J&K Seal), chlorobenzene (CB, 99.80 %, anhydrous, J&K Seal), and isopropanol (IPA, 99.80 %, anhydrous, J&K Seal). All of the chemicals were used as received without any further purification. 
 Device fabrication The inverted PSCs based on the structure ITO/PTAA/perovskite/ PCBM/BCP/Ag were prepared. Indium tin oxide (ITO) substrates were cleaned with detergents, deionized water, acetone, and ethanol in ultrasonic cleaning machine, subsequently. Then, after being dried with hot air and treated with UV-ozone, we diverted ITO substrates to the glove box which full of N 2 atmosphere. And then, we prepared the hole transport layer (PTAA, 2 mg/mL in chlorobenzene, 4000 rpm for 30 s, annealing at 100 • C for 10 min). To prepare the 1 ml perovskite precursor solution, 0.1607 g MAI and 0.4660 g PbI 2 were intermingled and dissolved in a mixed solution (DMSO/DMF, v/v, 1/4), which was stirred overnight. The prepared perovskite solution was deposited on the ITO/ PTAA by 5000 rpm for 50 s, and 110 μL of CB was quickly dripped within 10 s after the substrate began to rotate, followed by a thermal annealing at 100 • C for 10 min. The 2,6-Lu with different volume percentages of 0.0-15.0 % mixed with PCBM which was dissolved in CB. Subsequently, the mixed solutions were spin coated on top of perovskite layers at 2000 rpm for 50 s. Preparation of the BCP solution (0.5 mg/mL, IPA) on the ETL at 4000 rpm spin coated 30 s. Finally, the substrates were deposited 80 nm Ag in the high vacuum thermal evaporation equipment. The active area of PSCs was 0.04 cm 2 . 
 Characterizations Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were taken by a Regulus 8230 instrument. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was measured by Thermo Fischer (Esca Lab Xi+) with Al Kα radiation source (hν = 1486.6 eV). The 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 1 H NMR) spectra were tested on Bruker AVANCE ІІІ (400 MHz) with deuterated DMSO used as the solvent. The ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy (UPS) was measured by an ultraviolet photoelectron spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Escalab 250Xi). The steady-state photoluminescence (PL) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) were recorded on a spectrofluorimeter (Edinburgh, FLS1000) under the peak excitation of 467 nm and emission of 768 nm pulsed laser. The spacecharge-limited current (SCLC) measurement was detected by Keithley 2400 source meter with no light condition and the carrier mobility was determined by the Equation J = (9/8)ε 0 εμ((V-V bi ) 2 /L 3 ), where J is the current density, μ is the carrier mobility, ε 0 is the vacuum permittivity, and ε is the relative permittivity, L is the absorption layer thickness. The Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were performed on a Zennium electrochemical workstation (Zahner Instrument, Inc.). The atomic force microscopy (AFM) images were obtained by utilizing SPA-400 SPM (Seiko Instrument, Inc.). The UV-visible absorption spectra (UV-vis) were measured on UV-2501 (Shimadzu). The current density-voltage (J-V) curves of PSCs were also measured by a digital source meter (Keithley 2400) with a 100 mV/s voltage scanning speed to sweep both forward (from J SC to V OC ) and reverse (from V OC to J SC ). Under the AM 1.5 G and 1 sun irradiance of 100 mW cm -2 was supplied by the solar simulator (Newport, Oriel Sol3A) which calibrated light intensity by using a high precision digital illuminometer (DT1330A). The external quantum efficiency (EQE) measurement was performed by QE system (QE-R3011 Enlitech).   1a . We fabricate the ETL with a small organic molecule 2,6-Lu and then measure the pristine PCBM against after 2,6-Lu doped PCBM. The as-prepared PCBM or 2,6-Lu: PCBM solution is mixed in different volume concentrations on the perovskite substrate. The actual image (Fig.  1b ) of PSCs was obtained by crosssectional Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) scanning, wherein each layers of PSCs are very smooth and uniform, and the boundary between layers can be clearly distinguished. Additionally, as shown in Fig.  S1 , the surface of the perovskite layer was deposited on the PTAA substrate with a smooth surface and the good crystallization. 
 Results and discussion As is known to all, 2,6-Lu is a kind of small molecule to serve as cationic carrier, generally. As shown in Fig.  1c , the presumable interactions between 2,6-Lu and perovskite are graphically described. In the interfacial between ETL and perovskite layers of inverted PSCs, 2,6-Lu can effectively passivate Pb 2+ defects with insufficient coordination by providing lone electron pairs to Pb atoms through N atoms in 2,6-Lu molecules to form Lewis adducts, thus passivating the trap states. To demonstrate the interaction between small molecules and perovskites, we performed the study using FTIR characterization. As shown in Fig.  S2 , after doping 2,6-Lu with perovskite, the peak of C-H bending vibration (778.3 cm -1 ) in 2,6-Lu is greatly shifted to 784.8 cm -1 . It could be clearly observed that some peaks in the spectrum of perovskite without adding 2,6-Lu are shifted downward, including N-H bending vibration (1387.3 cm -1 ) and N-H non-bending vibration (3518.7 cm -1 ), the two peaks move to (1383.4 cm -1 ) and (3523 cm -1 ), respectively, and the displacement of these peaks is related to the interaction between the perovskite film and 2,6-Lu  [19] . The C-N stretching vibration peak of the original perovskite sample is located at (1167.8 cm -1 ), but it is shifted downward to 1158.7 cm -1 after the addition of 2,6-Lu, which may be due to the hydrogen bond affecting the N atom of MA + in the perovskite structure, enhancing the absorption strength of C-N bond  [20] . In order to quantify and research the precise chemical interactions between 2,6-Lu and perovskites, the presence of coordination interaction between 2,6-Lu and perovskite is validated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) in our experimental scheme. As shown in Fig.  1d , the Pb 2+ 4f XPS spectrum shows that after 2,6-Lu was doped into PCBM, the binding energy of Pb 2+ 4f changed and the Pb 0 peaks at 135.3 and 141.2 eV disappeared, and the two shoulder peaks show that there are iodide and cation vacancies on perovskite films  [21, 22] . The disappearance of metallic Pb 2+ peak indicates that the presence of these two vacancies is inhibited after 2,6-Lu treatment, which makes the Pb 0 defects effectively passivated. In the Fig.  1e , compared with the control device, the binding energy of N 1s peaks reduced by 0.1 eV. The shift of the N 1s peak may be due to the interaction between the pyridine unit and the Pb element. As shown in Fig.  1f , the shift of the I 3d peaks indicates that the chemical environment around Pb 2+ and I -ion has changed, which may be caused by the chemical interaction between the end of ammonium iodide and PbI 2 , thus passivating the I 0 defect  [23, 24] . The above results show that the 2,6-Lu can indeed passivate the interfacial defects of perovskite layer through the interaction between Pb and -N-. In addition, the doping of the 2,6-Lu can adjust the energy level distribution on the surface of perovskite. We obtained the electronic characteristics of PCBM: 2,6-Lu ETL by ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy (UPS) measurement (more detailed can be found in Fig.  S3  and Table  S1 ). As shown in Fig.  2a , b, the energy band arrangement diagram of each layer in a typical inverted PSCs is established from the measured energy levels. Compared with the control device, the valence band of the 2,6-Lu doped device (-6.43 eV vs -6.02 eV) produces an energy barrier comparable to MAPbI 3 perovskite (-5.64 eV), which makes the ETL of 2,6-Lu doped device restraining hole from availably reaching the cathode and preventing the charge recombination. More importantly, the conductive band of the 2,6-Lu doped device (-4.18 eV) is higher than that of the control device (-4.22 eV). Relative to the position of perovskite (-4.02 eV), there is a suitable ideal energy level for device between 2,6-Lu doped device and perovskite, which produce a smaller electron transport barrier after separation from the perovskite layer, which is beneficial to accelerate the extraction of electrons. The steady-state photoluminescence (PL) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) were performed to further illustrate the defect passivation and charge extraction. As represented in Figs.  2c  and S4 , the PL of the perovskite layer can be quenched more effectively by the film doped with 2,6-Lu than by the control device. This result shows that the efficiency of electron extraction on the interface of the perovskite/ PCBM: 2,6-Lu is much higher than that of the perovskite/PCBM, because the addition of 2,6-Lu leads to a reduction in the interface defects of the perovskite. It is noteworthy that the PL peak doped with 2,6-Lu shows a slight blue shift compared with the pure perovskite, which indicates that 2,6-Lu possess certain passivation effect to the defect density of perovskite layer  [25] [26] [27] [28] . To further verify the enhancement of charge extraction, the carrier lifetime was measured, as shown in Fig.  2d . A double exponential decay function fitted with the photoluminescent decay as follows: y = A 1 exp (-(x-x 0 )/τ 1 ) + A 2 exp ((-x-x 0 )/τ 2 ) + y 0 (1) where y 0 is the background constant and x 0 is the start time the decay process. A 1 and τ 1 are the fractions and time constants of the fast charge transfer process, and the slow radiative decay process is represented by the fraction A 2 and the time constant τ 2 , respectively  [29] . To obtain more insights of the decrease in trap-state density (N t ) and charge carrier mobility (μ), space-charge-limited current (SCLC) was manifested of the electron dominated device ITO/TiO 2 /perovskite/ETL/ BCP/Ag in Fig.  2e . The trap density N t is calculated by the formula N t = 2εε 0 V TFL (eL 2 ) -1 (2) where the e is the elementary charge, L is the thickness of the perovskite film, V TFL is the onset voltage of the trap-filled limited region, and the ε is the relative dielectric constant  [30] . Compared to the control device, the V TFL of the device doped with 2,6-Lu reduces from 0.616 to 0.432 V, and the corresponding electron trap reduces from 2.78 × 10 16 to 1.95 × 10 16 cm -3 . This result exhibits that 2,6-Lu can cure the charge defects of the perovskite surface. In addition, the computed electron mobility of the 2,6-Lu doped device is 1.97 × 10 -5 cm 2 V -1 S -1 , which is almost an order of magnitude higher than that of the control device (1.94 × 10 -6 cm 2 V -1 S -1 ). The enhanced electron mobility confirms that 2,6-Lu can reduce the performance loss caused by charge recombination by improving charge transfer. Moreover, the charge-carrier dynamics of doped devices to estimate the charge recombination and transport of PSCs is further carried out to study by dark J-V. As shown in Fig.  2f , compared with the control device, the 2,6-Lu doped device shows a lower dark current density value in the forward direction and high leakage current in reverse direction. The result of dark J-V curve is consistent with our previous characterization, indicating that 2,6-Lu can improve charge transfer and recombination of the perovskite film  [31] . The decrease of perovskite/PCBM interface defects and the increase of electron mobility are conducive to electron transfer and reduce interface charge recombination. Therefore, the kinetic process of charge transfer was studied by Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The Nyquist plots of PSCs based on the PCBM and PCBM: 2,6-Lu films under dark at the 0.1 V applied voltage are shown in Fig.  S5 , the corresponding equivalent circuit model is shown in the inset, and the specific fitting data is presented in Table  S3 . It can be seen from the fitting results that there is much higher recombination resistance (R rec ) and smaller series resistance (R s ) of the 2,6-Lu doped device than control device, meaning that carrier recombination of device based on PCBM: 2,6-Lu is more difficult. In other words, it indicates that the transfer and collection of electrons are more efficiently. In addition, the conductivity of the ETL was measured by means of the dark current-voltage (I-V) characteristic. Fig.  S6a  shows the I-V characteristic curves of PCBM and PCBM: 2,6-Lu based on ITO/ETL/Ag structure, respectively. The equation of electrical conductivity σ is σ = (d × I)/S × U (3) where d is the thickness of the ETL, S is the electrode area ~0.04 cm 2 , I is the current, and U is the voltage drop. The variation trend of electrical conductivity with concentration is shown in Fig.  S6b , the champion conductivity (2.79 × 10 -5 S/cm) is obtained at a concentration of 10 %. In comparison, the control device presents a relatively poor conductivity of 1.95 × 10 -5 S/cm. Therefore, the conductivity possesses a high growth by 45 % with the 2,6-Lu doping of the PCBM. The reason of the conductivity first increased and then decreased with the increase of the concentration of small molecules may be due to the interaction between 2, 6-Lu and PCBM molecules. As a Lewis base, 2, 6-Lu can be used as an N-type dopant in fullerene derivatives to promote charge transfer and thereby increase the electrical conductivity  [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] . When the concentration of 2, 6-Lu is low, the molecules of 2, 6-Lu cannot effectively alleviate aggregation of PCBM, resulting in low charge transfer efficiency. When the concentration is too high, the conductivity of 2, 6-Lu is poor, and the conductivity of PCBM is decreased to a certain extent. Moreover, it is possible that the charge transfer speed is also accelerated due to the increase in electrical conductivity. The effect of 2,6-Lu to the surface morphology of perovskite was demonstrated by atomic force microscopy (AFM). Fig.  S7  shows the AFM image of pristine PCBM ETLs and PCBM: 2,6-Lu (10 %) ETLs on the perovskite substrate. The surface morphology of the pristine PCBM film shows a root-mean-square (RMS) roughness of 2.66 nm (Fig.  S7a ), however, the RMS decreases to 1.79 nm (Fig.  S7b ) after doping 2,6-Lu to PCBM, indicating that the surface of the 2,6-Lu doped film becomes more homogeneous. The reasonable explanation for the reduction of roughness is that 2, 6-Lu molecules (Lewis bases) can wrap PCBM molecules (Lewis acids), thus reducing the aggregation effect between PCBM molecules. As a result, the uniformity of surface morphology is improved and the roughness after doping is reduced  [37] . And Fig.  S8  shows the top-view SEM image with PCBM. The results manifest that the 2,6-Lu doping strategy makes efficiently reduces the surface roughness, facilitating charge transfer between the PCBM and the layer of perovskite  [38] . In order to research the effect 2,6-Lu passivation strategy on optical properties of the perovskite films, UV-visible absorption spectra (UV-vis) spectroscopy was measured. Fig.  S9  depicts the optical absorption of ETL layer devices prepared under different concentrations of PCBM: 2,6-Lu at wavelengths between 480 nm and 850 nm. Compared with the control film, there is maximum absorption intensity as ITO/perovskite/PCBM: 2,6-Lu (10 %) between 620 nm and 720 nm, suggesting the doping of 2,6-Lu in PCBM with optimizing volume ratios possesses a profitable effect on the optical trapping ability of perovskite layer. To explain the enhanced absorption of doped perovskite films, we tested the UV-vis absorption of PCBM and PCBM doped with 2, 6-Lu. As shown in Fig.  S10 , the test results showed that the PCBM: 2, 6-Lu sample showed significant absorption enhancement in the range of 500 nm to 800 nm, which should be due to more light absorption by 2, 6-Lu between 590 and 810 nm. Besides, the absorption edge and bandgap of Tauc plot curves (Fig.  S11  and Table  S4 ) is corresponding to the result of our characterizations mentioned above. Finally, the p-i-n configuration of perovskite solar cells was obtained by using vacuum evaporation to plate Ag on devices with different 2,6-Lu doping concentrations. The current density-voltage (J-V) characteristics curves of each concentration device are measured under the AM 1.5 G (1 sun) illumination at 100 mW/cm 2 . As shown in Fig.  3a , the J-V curves indicate that PCE increases with the increased doping concentration of 2,6-Lu owing to the enhancement of FF (more detailed can be found in Table  S5 ). When the doping concentration of 2,6-Lu reaches 10 %, the highest PCE of the doped device can reach 19.93 % (V OC = 1.07 V, J SC = 23.19 mA/cm 2 , FF = 80.49 %), the PCE represents an enhancement by 16.83 % compared to the control device (V OC = 1.06 V, J SC = 21.71 mA/cm 2 , FF = 78.86 %, PCE = 18.04 %). Further increasing the doping concentration of 2,6-Lu leads to a sharply decreased Jsc and then PCE even though the FF could reach a value of 80.89 %. Thus, one can conclude that the addition of 2,6-Lu benefits the enhancement of photovoltaic performance via enhancing the FF and J SC . The effective improvement of FF and J SC is primarily attributed to the decrease of carrier recombination due to interfacial passivation. These results fully agree with the reduction of R s and the enhancement of R rec of doped device with different concentrations of 2,6-Lu in Fig.  S5  and Table  S3 . In addition, as shown in Fig.  3b , Fig.  S13  and Table  1 , the 2,6-Lu doped sample also exhibits a negligible hysteresis (0.75 % compared to 1.59 % for the control device, and the hysteresis of the other two concentrations with their statistical analysis are shown in Fig.  S12  and Table  S7 ). The reason probably because the interaction between the PCBM: 2,6-Lu and perovskite layer strengthens the perovskite surface passivation and charge transfer  [39] . The external quantum efficiency (EQE) is depicted in Fig.  3c , and the calculated integrated current of the control and 2,6-Lu doped devices are 21.48 and 22.91 mA/cm 2 , respectively, which are consistent with the J sc measured from the J-V curves and the error is less than 2 %. The steady-state power output (SPO) of the doping device and the control device is measured at 0.91 V and 0.85 V bias, respectively (Fig.  3d ), and the results are close to the values originating from the J-V curves. The long-term stability of PSCs is an important parameter affecting their wide application, so in order to evaluate the change of long-term stability before and after doping, the long-term stability test was carried out by ISOS-D-1 protocol  [40] . On the inside of the aggregates is pyridine nitrogen, which forms hydrogen bonds with water molecules, and on the outside is methyl group of hydrophobic groups. The formation of aggregates will improve the hydrophobicity of PCBM  [41, 42] . This indicates that doping 2,6-Lu into PCBM enhances the hydrophobicity of the ETL. Therefore, PCBM: 2,6-Lu ETL is beneficial to greatly reduce water erosion of perovskite membrane and improving its stability  [43, 44] .  
 Conclusion In summary, we successfully introduced the small molecule 2,6-Lu into PCBM at the upper interface of the perovskite to achieve PSCs with outstanding performance. First, the coordination interaction between the -N-groups within 2,6-Lu and the uncoordinated Pb 2+ minimizes charge defects; thus, charge recombination can be effectively inhibited. Moreover, a suitable energy-level arrangement is formed  
 Table 1 The determined performance parameters for both devices under both forward scan (FS) and reverse scan (RS) direction. V OC (V) J SC (mA/cm   
 Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Fig. Fig. 1a, b displays the schematic diagram and actual image of inverted PSCs. The PSCs device architecture of ITO/PTAA/perovskite (MAPbI 3 )/ETL/BCP/Ag and the chemical structures formula of 2,6-Lu and PCBM are shown in Fig.1a. We fabricate the ETL with a small organic molecule 2,6-Lu and then measure the pristine PCBM against after 2,6-Lu doped PCBM. The as-prepared PCBM or 2,6-Lu: PCBM solution is mixed in different volume concentrations on the perovskite substrate. The actual image (Fig.1b) of PSCs was obtained by crosssectional Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) scanning, wherein each layers of PSCs are very smooth and uniform, and the boundary between layers can be clearly distinguished. Additionally, as shown in Fig.S1, the surface of the perovskite layer was deposited on the PTAA substrate with a smooth surface and the good crystallization.As is known to all, 2,6-Lu is a kind of small molecule to serve as cationic carrier, generally. As shown in Fig.1c, the presumable interactions between 2,6-Lu and perovskite are graphically described. In the interfacial between ETL and perovskite layers of inverted PSCs, 2,6-Lu can effectively passivate Pb 2+ defects with insufficient coordination by providing lone electron pairs to Pb atoms through N atoms in 2,6-Lu molecules to form Lewis adducts, thus passivating the trap states. To demonstrate the interaction between small molecules and perovskites, we performed the study using FTIR characterization. As shown in Fig.S2, after doping 2,6-Lu with perovskite, the peak of C-H bending vibration (778.3 cm -1 ) in 2,6-Lu is greatly shifted to 784.8 cm -1 . It could be clearly observed that some peaks in the spectrum of perovskite without adding 2,6-Lu are shifted downward, including N-H bending vibration (1387.3 cm -1 ) and N-H non-bending vibration (3518.7 cm -1 ), the two peaks move to (1383.4 cm -1 ) and (3523 cm -1 ), respectively, and the displacement of these peaks is related to the interaction between the perovskite film and 2,6-Lu [19] . The C-N stretching vibration peak of the original perovskite sample is located at (1167.8 cm -1 ), but it is shifted downward to 1158.7 cm -1 after the addition of 2,6-Lu, which 
 Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. (a) Schematic diagram of the inverted perovskite solar cell and structural formula of 2,6-Lu and PCBM. (b) Cross-sectional SEM image of the corresponding structural device. (c) Schematic of the passivation mechanism of the molecular bonding between perovskite and 2,6-Lu. XPS spectra core levels of the MAPbI 3 film without and with 2,6-Lu treatment: (d) Pb 4f, (e) N 1s, and (f) I 3d (g) 1 H NMR spectra of the three samples: deuterated DMSO solution with 2,6-Lu, perovskite, and perovskite + 2,6-Lu. 
 1 H NMR was conducted to further confirm the existence of chemical interactions between 2,6-Lu and perovskite. In Fig.1g, the1 H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 1 H NMR) spectra of three samples are shown: deuterated DMSO solutions containing 2,6-Lu, perovskite, and perovskite+2,6-Lu (representing the diffusion of 2, 6-Lu to perovskite). The perovskite solution shows a main proton peak with chemical shift of 7.59 ppm, which represent the proton signal of NH 3 . When 2,6-Lu is added to perovskite solution, compared with 2, 6-Lu, the proton signal on the aromatic ring of 2,6-Lu shift by 0.07 ppm. The proton chemical shift in 1 H NMR spectra of above sample indicates the interaction between 2,6-Lu and perovskite. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. (a) UPS curve of ITO/PCBM:2,6-Lu sample. (b) Energy level diagrams of the perovskite layers. (c) PL and (d) TRPL spectra of perovskite, perovskite /PCBM, and perovskite /PCBM: 2,6-Lu (10 %) films deposited on glass. (e) Dark J-V characteristics of the electron-only devices with a structure of ITO/TiO 2 / perovskite /ETL/Ag under different procedures. (f) Dark J-V curves of the champion device with the control device, the 2,6-Lu doped device. 
 Fig. 4a shows PCE decay of the champion unencapsulated control device and the 2,6-Lu doped device in the same ambient air in the dark (relative humidity ca. 70 %, temperature ca. 25 • C). After 30 days of exposed storage in the ambient air, the normalized PCE of the control device gradually decreases to ca. 60 % of its initial efficiency. In contrast, after 30 days, the 2,6-Lu doped device maintains ca. 80 % of its initial efficiency. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 4b, the water contact angles of pristine PCBM ETL and PCBM: 2,6-Lu ETL were 70.70 • and 84.01 • , respectively. In the molecular structure of 2, 6-Lu, pyridine nitrogen is hydrophilic, while the methyl group on the pyridine ring gives it the ability of hydrophobic. After the 2, 6-Lu molecule encounters the water molecule, the water molecule becomes O-H⋅⋅⋅N hydrogen bonding with 2,6-Lu molecules will make 2, 6-Lu molecules surround water molecules in a synergistic action to form 2, 6-Lu-H 2 O aggregates. 
 Fig. 4c-f summarized the histogram statistics of the parameter distribution of 40 devices of 2,6-Lu doped devices (10 %). The fluctuation of all parameter is comparatively small, which indicates superior reproducibility. These results verify the advantage and reliability of 2, 6-Lu doping in obtaining high-performance PSCs. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. Characteristics of devices with comparisons: (a)J-V curves of MAPbI 3 -based perovskite solar cells doped with different concentrations of 2,6-Lu. (b) J-V curves of champion efficiency devices. (c) EQE and corresponding integrated J SC . (d) SPO for doping and controlling devices. 
 between the perovskite and PCBM after 2,6-Lu doping, which improves charge extraction and transport. The champion device with the designed ETL provided a PCE of 19.93 % with a fill factor (FF) exceeding 80 %. In addition, the 2,6-Lu doped device with the designed ETL showed excellent long-term stability, maintaining more than 80 % of its initial efficiency after 30 d of storage in ambient air. Our study suggests that a meticulous design of functionalized ETL molecules for interfacial defect passivation and energy-level alignment can effectively improve the efficiency and stability of PSCs.CRediT authorship contribution statementShilong He: Writingreview & editing, Writingoriginal draft, Visualization, Software, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation. Binbin Wang: Resources, Conceptualization. Peisong Wang: Writingoriginal draft. Yaowu Wang: Supervision, Resources. Yujie Cheng: Funding acquisition. Yueyue Lv: Validation. Yao Li: Supervision, Funding acquisition. 
 Compared to the control device (τ 1 = 1.21 ns, τ 2 = 10.12 ns, τ avg = 2.22 ns), there are shorter levels fast charge-transfer process and longer slow radiative decay process of the 2,6-Lu doped device (τ 2 = 0.86 ns , τ 2 = 7.11 ns, τ avg = 1.23 ns) (detailed values can be obtained from TableS2in the Supporting Information). The low average carrier lifetime indicates that the charge transfer of 2,6-Lu doped device is faster than that of the control device. This is because 2,6-Lu could be able to improve the charge separation and extraction capacity of PCBM, as well as reduce the defect density at the perovskite/ETL interface.
