Paper #: 323_1
Title: Nanocrystal Diffusion in a Liquid Thin Film Observed by in situ Transmission
We have directly observed motion of inorganic nanoparticles during fluid evaporation using a Transmission Electron Microscope. Tracking real-time diffusion of both spherical (5-15 nm) and rod-shaped (5x10 nm) gold nanocrystals in a thin-film of water-15%glycerol reveals complex movements, such as rolling motions coupled to large-step movements and macroscopic violations of the Stokes-Einstein relation for diffusion. As drying patches form during the final stages of evaporation, particle motion is dominated by the nearby retracting liquid front.
When a liquid that contains colloidal nanoparticles evaporates from a surface, a variety of intricate patterns can form  1, 2  . In a controlled drying process  3, 4  large-scale arrays of highly organized patterns of nanoparticles can be generated. For example, capillary forces can overcome the random thermal fluctuations so that nanoparticles diffuse into pre-patterned holes or templates on a substrate surface  4  . Controlled selfassembly of nanocrystals into functional patterns holds promise as a scalable fabrication strategy to systematically produce nanoscale devices. However, fluid deposition of nanoparticles is poorly understood and generally not predictable at the present time. One of the fundamental questions underlying particle assembly is what are the characteristics of the particle diffusion near surfaces and during the last moments before liquid drying? As the thickness of a solution approaches the nanometer scale, several factors influence the particle motion. These include solvent surface fluctuations  2  , air-liquid\substrate-liquid interface structure  4, 5  as well as the intrinsic differences in the relaxation and transport properties in an ultra thin liquid film compared to its bulk  [6] [7] [8] [9]  . Diffusion of nanoparticles in such thin liquid films is largely beyond the predictive capabilities of current theoretical computation  10  . The challenge for experimentalists is that it has not been possible to directly image the details of the dynamical diffusion processes in real time due to instrumental limitations. By taking advantage of the high spatial resolution of a transmission electron microscope (TEM), we were able to observe the microscopic details of nanoparticle motion during fluid evaporation. Imaging of liquid samples using a TEM is achieved here by using a newly designed self-contained liquid cell (see details on the liquid cells in Supporting Information and related techniques by Williamson et al.  12  ). For imaging, about a hundred nanoliters of a dilute solution of Au nanoparticles in a water-glycerol mixture was loaded into one of the reservoirs in the liquid cell. The solution was dilute in order to avoid interactions between the gold particles for this work, although concentrated solutions could also be examined by this method (see liquid sample preparation in Supporting Information). Liquid solution was drawn from the reservoir into the window by capillary forces and formed a liquid layer confined between two electron transparent silicon nitride membranes. Subsequently, the liquid cell was sealed and loaded into a TEM as a standard TEM sample. The liquid slowly evaporates inside the microscope due to the imperfect seal of the cell in a vacuum environment and a relative high vapor pressure of the liquid. Consequently, one side of the liquid film generally detaches from the silicon nitride membrane, creating a vapor-liquid interface. Observations are thus of particles moving in a thin liquid film between a solid substrate and a liquid-vapor interface, as it would occur during most drying processes. Due to the slow evaporation rate of the fluid (~1 nm/min, see Supporting Information), our observations are of the particle motion in a liquid thin film with negligible changes in the film thickness. We first study the nanoparticle motion before the formation of drying patches and when the liquid thickness is close to but greater than the nanoparticle diameter. Throughout this period, the nanoparticles execute a complex trajectory of motions which show significant effects from the substrate surface. From image analysis, we obtain data sets consisting of a particle's two-dimensional center-of-mass positions € R(t i ) = [x(t i ), y(t i )] in the lab frame with spatial resolution of 1 nm and temporal resolution of 30 milliseconds. For asymmetric particles we also measure the orientation angles, € θ(t i ), relative to the x-axis with resolution of 1° (Fig.  3C ). Microscopic details of the particle movement can be obtained from the individual video frames. We have considered the effects that the electron beam might have on the particle motion, including local heating  12, 13  , direct momentum transfer from the electron beam  12  , and electron charging  14  . In the water-glycerol mixture under study here, thermal fluctuations in the liquid are large compared to the energy imparted to the particles by the electron beam. Thus, while an energetic electron beam such as that in the TEM can drive nanoparticle motion in some circumstances, such as on a dry substrate, this is not a significant consideration here, as the electron beam effects on particle motion is a few orders of magnitude smaller than the liquid thermal effects. It is also evidenced by the negligible differences in particle trajectories obtained at beam currents that differ by a factor of five (see the theoretical calculation and experiments in Supporting Information). Due to the complexity of a non-equilibrium liquid under evaporation, it is difficult to estimate the exact liquid conditions (e.g. liquid thickness, etc.), which makes it impractical to compare particle diffusion from different samples. In order to study the variation of particle motion as a function of nanoparticle size, we mixed nanoparticles of different sizes together, and collected trajectories from particles of different sizes that were close to each other. Trajectories of two-dimensional particle displacement for three particles sizes, 5, 10 and 15 nm in diameter, in the same liquid film recorded in the same time period before drying patches initiated are shown in Fig.  1A  (also see movie S1). A liquid thickness of roughly 20-30 nm was estimated by assuming a linear evaporation rate  15  . The particle trajectories exhibit sparse and larger step movements, which we term "jumps", between swarms of much smaller steps. Larger jump distances were observed for larger particles. In order to quantify this behavior, we analyzed the particle displacement (λ) during a time interval (Δt) as a function time (t), shown in Fig.  1B  (see detailed analysis in Supporting Information and reference by Raptis et al.  16  ). Particle jumps, corresponding to peaks in the plot in Fig.  1B , are followed by an extended series of small-step displacements along the trajectory. There was no obvious correlation between the jumps of different, but nearby particles. Thus, we conclude that these jumps are not the result of large-scale liquid motion (for example, convection or turbulence), which would be similar for nearby particles within the small field of view (about 100 nm 2 ). The mean-square displacement, MSD ( € < x 2 >), including all multi-scale step movements is approximately linear with time (t), see Fig.  1E . This allows estimation of two-dimensional diffusion coefficients € D =< x 2 > / 4t , from which 0.165 nm 2 /s for the 5 nm, 0.172 nm 2 /s for the 10 nm, and 0.268 nm 2 /s for the 15 nm particle were obtained. It is interesting to note that the larger diffusion coefficients observed for larger particles violates the Stokes-Einstein relationship, in which D scales inversely with particle diameter. Detailed characterization of the particle motion reveals the mechanism of this violation. The histograms of particle displacement distribution show multiple peaks corresponding to the different scales of step movements, namely, a main peak around zero displacement due to the small-step movements and subsidiary peaks due to the larger step movements (Fig.  1D ). The main peaks around zero displacement can be fit by Gaussian distributions. The standard deviation of the distribution represents the average step displacement during the time interval. A diffusion constant due to the small-step movements only can be obtained from the average small-step displacement as a function of time. The diffusion constant due to the small-step movement is roughly inversely proportional to particle size, see Fig.  1E . Therefore, the larger step jump diffusion is the main contribution to the violation of the Stokes-Einstein relationship. Analysis of individual images indicates particle contrast changes during each jump (see Fig.  2A  and B , as examples). However, the particle contrast mostly remains the same for the small-step movements (Fig.  S3C ). Since the particles are crystalline (Fig.  2D ), the contrast changes result from changes in particle orientation, and the correspondingly different diffraction intensities  17  . It was observed that the particle rotates along the direction of movement (rolling) for the 15 nm particle. The rolling motion suggests a significant effect of the substrate surface on the particle movement  18, 19  . Nanoparticles in solution can be weakly bound near the surface due to a potential for attraction between the surface and the particles  20  . Luedtke and Landman  21  predicted this type of anomalous diffusion behavior for nanoparticles near a dry-surface about ten years ago, but it has not been possible to directly observe this previously. In their model, the initiation of rolling is attributed to a thermal fluctuation overcoming the energy barrier of interaction between the substrate and the particle. The differences in our case are that the particles are in a thin film liquid and only limited rolling distances were observed. Statistically, the step lengths consist roughly of two normal distributions (Fig.  1D ) instead of Lévy flight characteristics (a power law dependence of step length  [21] [22] [23]  ). Experimentally, these two modes of particle motion can be classified as the motion in the liquid thin film and the motion confined on the substrate surface. There also might be additional factors (e.g. lateral capillary forces or local convective flow) from the liquid surface affecting the movement of the larger particles more strongly than the smaller particles  24  . In a thin liquid film, such effects can drive the larger particles to move faster than the smaller ones. We have found that the jumps of the largest particles are roughly along certain directions (Fig.  1A ), which suggests that the particles might be moving in the direction of local convective flow or are dragged by a lateral capillary force. Our observation is consistent with earlier studies on the size-dependent separation of colloidal nanoparticles during fluid evaporation  [25] [26]  . However, direct observation of the sizedependent movement of individual nanoparticles during fluid evaporation has not been possible before. Particle orientation changes correlated to particle jumps in the liquid film are more clearly seen in the motions of an asymmetric particle (5×10 nm). For example, rotation from vertical to in-plane and rolling around its long axis in addition to in-plane rotation and translation were observed, see Fig.  3A  and movie 2S. The consecutive center-of-mass translational motion and orientation were plotted in Fig.  3B , in which orientations θ relative to the x-axis are labeled with a rainbow color scale. A uniaxial anisotropic particle is characterized by parallel and transverse components of hydrodynamic friction coefficients, γ // and γ ⊥ respectively, for motion parallel to its long axis ( € X // ) and perpendicular to its long axis ( € Y ⊥ ). In general, γ // is smaller than γ ⊥  27  , and consequently a larger diffusion coefficient along € X // axis than along € Y ⊥ axis is expected if a particle's rotation is prohibited. Such anisotropic motion is also valid for a short time when rotation is allowed  28  . We resolved this behavior by decomposing the rod's displacement into components relative to the body frame € X // ,Y ⊥ [ ] or the lab frame € x, y,θ [ ]. As shown in Fig.  3C , their relation can be expressed as   3E ). The detailed evolution of the rod trajectory from short-term anisotropic motion to long-time isotropic motion due to the rod rotation can be further resolved. When following the behavior of individual particles before and after the initiation of drying patches, we found distinctly different modes of motion. This is apparent from the trajectory of a 5 nm spherical particle motion through a sequence of movements in Fig.  4A . The displacement (λ) during a time interval (Δt) vs time (t) was analyzed (Fig.  4B ) using the same method as in Fig.  2B . Similar behavior of the particle jumps followed by small-step movements was observed during the first 400 s of movement. Jumps corresponding to particle rolling are observed. At the later stages of the particle movement (see Fig.  4B ), the motion is heavily biased. In addition, large-step displacements (also manifested as jumps in the trajectory, see Fig.  4A b→c ) were an order of magnitude larger than the average jump-length in a liquid film at the early stage. The corresponding images elucidate that drying patches formed in the liquid film and particles were dragged by the nearby retracting liquid front (Fig.  4C ). Since the particle contrast does not change during these drying patch induced large jumps, we conclude that the motion proceeded primarily by sliding at this stage. Correlated jumps between nearby particles were observed in some cases, supporting the suggestion of liquid drag. In the present study we have directly resolved the complex motion of inorganic nanoparticles in a liquid thin film during solvent evaporation. Our observations reveal three distinctly different modes of particle motion: (1) center-of-mass displacement over short length scales, (2) rolling over longer length scales, and finally, (3) dragging by the fluid front over considerably longer distances. A combination of these three modes of movements determines the ultimate motion of the particle during the drying process. This work has provided a unique view of the motion of individual nanoparticles during solvent evaporation, providing the necessary groundwork for future studies of correlated motion in more concentrated particle solutions and for studies of particle diffusion during selfassembly processes intended to create complex functional nanoparticle arrangements. In addition, gold nanoparticles have been used as labels for electron microscopy of frozen biological samples for decades. The work described here suggests that it may not be long before dynamical motion of biological molecules can be tracked by electron microscopy in physiological environments.     €X // = Δx cosθ + Δy sinθ and € Y ⊥ = -Δx sinθ + Δy cosθ , where € Δx = (x 1 -x 2 ), € Δy = (y 1 -y 2 ) and € θ = θ 1 . We calculated the mean-square displacement (MSD) vs time (t) along € X // and € Y ⊥ axes (Fig. 3D) and obtained the anisotropic diffusion coefficients of 0.26 nm 2 /s along € X // axis and 0.16 nm 2 /s along € Y ⊥ axis (estimated from the slope of the plots). The histograms of the displacement distribution along the two axes show a larger deviation corresponding to a larger diffusion coefficient along the € X // axis (Fig. 
 Figures:Fig. 1 . 1 Figures: 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. Jump motion corresponding to particle orientation changes. (A) An image sequence showing the orientation changes of a 5 nm particle during a jump. The orientation changes indicated by the difference in diffraction intensities within the particle are highlighted using color gradient maps. (B) An image sequence showing the orientation changes of a 15 nm particle during a jump. (C) Jump distances (center-ofmass displacements) of the 5 nm particle in (A) and 15 nm particle in (B) within a time interval of 0.7 s. (D) High resolution TEM image of a gold particle inside the liquid cell after the diffusion experiment (the liquid has dried out). An enlarged view of the marked section is shown in the upper right. The original video images corresponding to (A) and (B) are provided in Fig. S3 (A) and (B). 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. Asymmetric particle motion. (A) Selected image sequences showing a 510 nm asymmetric particle (particle 2) undergoing different types of motion: rotation from vertical to in-plane, rolling around its long-axis and wagging. Particle 1 is a reference particle with no random motion. The direction of the electron beam (e-) is indicated by an arrow; a cirle indicates that the beam is normal to the figure. (B) A trajectory of the rodshaped particle's 5,550-step center-of-mass displacements in a liquid thin film. Each step is 1/30 s. Orientations are labeled with a rainbow color scale. (C) Particle motion can be referred to the body frame (,) or the lab frame (x, y, ). (D) Mean-square displacement, MSD, vs time showing the asymmetric motion along and axes. (E) Histograms showing the distributions of the particle displacements during a time interval of 6 s along and axes. Black curves show Gaussian fits. Additional peaks due to the larger step movements are marked by arrows. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. A 5 nm particle motion in a liquid thin film until the formation of drying patches. (A) Trajectory of 18,150-step movement. Each step is 1/30 s. The initial position is arbitrary. The time variable is labeled with a rainbow color scale. (B) Displacement during a time interval of 2 s vs time. (C) An image sequence corresponding to the positions in the trajectory in (A) showing the particle being dragged by the nearby retracting liquid front at the later stage of solvent evaporation. a, 602.0 s; b, 665.9 s c, 666.0 s and d, 671.6 s.
Paper #: 323_2
Title: Vapor-assisted deposition of highly efficient, stable black-phase FAPbI 3 perovskite solar cells
MASCN or FASCN α -FAPbl 3 δ-FAPbl 3 SCN - FA + α-FAPbl 3 δ-FAPbl 3 Energy barrier α-phase percentage Vapor Stable and phase pure MASCN vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films. Vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films were annealed at 85°C for 500 hours in an N 2 environment.
INTRODUCTION:  Metal halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have reached a power-conversion efficiency (PCE) of 25.2%, thus exceeding other thin-film solar cells. FAPbI 3 (where FA is formamidinium) has been shown to be an ideal candidate for efficient, stable PSCs. Obtaining highly crystalline, stable, and pure a-phase FAPbI 3 films has been of vital importance. However, FAPbI 3 undergoes a phase transition from the black a-phase to the photoinactive d-phase below 150°C. Previous approaches to overcoming this problem include mixing it with MA, Cs or Br ions. Here, we report a deposition method using methylammonium thiocyanate (MASCN) vapor treatment to convert d-FAPbI 3 to the desired pure a-phase below the thermodynamic phase-transition temperature. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations show that the SCN -anions promote the formation and stabilization of a-FAPbI 3 . These vapor-treated FAPbI 3 PSCs exhibit outstanding photovoltaic and electroluminescent performance. RATIONALE: Although the phase transition from dto a-phase FAPbI 3 requires a high temperature, the treatment of d-phase FAPbI 3 films with MASCN vapor allows the conversion to occur at temperatures below 150°C. MD simulations show that SCN -ions preferentially adsorb on the surface of d-FAPbI 3 to replace iodide ions that are bound to Pb 2+ . This process disintegrates the top layer of face-sharing octahedra and induces the transition to the corner-sharing architecture of a-FAPbI 3 . Once the corner-sharing a-form is formed on the top surface, this layer templates the progression of the phase transition from dto a-FAPbI 3 toward the bulk. Once the pure a-FAPbI 3 is formed, its back conversion to the d-phase is prevented by a high energy barrier. RESULTS: We show a complete conversion from dto a-FAPbI 3 at 100°C using the MASCN vapor treatment method. This phase transition can also be achieved using FASCN vapor. The vaportreated FAPbI 3 film remained in its pure black phase even after 500 hours of annealing at 85°C, whereas the reference FAPbI 3 film formed mainly PbI 2 during the heat exposure. X-ray diffraction data showed an improved crystallinity and preferred orientation of the FAPbI 3 films after vapor treatment. One-and two-dimensional NMR experiments were used to probe changes in symmetry and quantify the incorporation of MA into the perovskite framework. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry measurements confirmed that the MASCN content was mostly located near the surface region of the FAPbI 3 films. We used these low-defect-density a-FAPbI 3 films to make PSCs with >23% PCE, long-term operational stability, low (330 mV) open-circuit voltage (V oc ) loss, and low (0.75 V) turn-on voltage of electroluminescence. CONCLUSION: SCN -anions play a key role in promoting the formation and stabilization of a-FAPbI 3 . Vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films showed long-term thermal stability. MD simulations showed that the pure a-FAPbI 3 remained kinetically stable. These findings are important for developing stable and pure black-phase FAPbI 3 -based PSCs. Our vapor-treated FAPbI 3 PSCs showed high efficiency and good longterm stability under maximum power point tracking conditions. Because of its high V oc and high external quantum efficiency electroluminescence yield, pure a-FAPbI 3 will be useful for other applications such as light-emitting diodes and photodetectors. ▪ 
 RESEARCH ARTICLE 
 ◥ 
 SOLAR CELLS Vapor-assisted deposition of highly efficient, stable black-phase FAPbI 3 perovskite solar cells Haizhou Lu 1,2 , Yuhang Liu 2 , Paramvir Ahlawat 3 , Aditya Mishra 4 , Wolfgang R. Tress 1 , Felix T. Eickemeyer 2 , Yingguo Yang 5 , Fan Fu 6 , Zaiwei Wang 1 , Claudia E. Avalos 4 , Brian I. Carlsen 1 , Anand Agarwalla 1 , Xin Zhang 7 , Xiaoguo Li 7 , Yiqiang Zhan 7 *, Shaik M. Zakeeruddin 2 , Lyndon Emsley 4 , Ursula Rothlisberger 3 , Lirong Zheng 7 *, Anders Hagfeldt 1 *, Michael Grätzel 2 * Mixtures of cations or halides with FAPbI 3 (where FA is formamidinium) lead to high efficiency in perovskite solar cells (PSCs) but also to blue-shifted absorption and long-term stability issues caused by loss of volatile methylammonium (MA) and phase segregation. We report a deposition method using MA thiocyanate (MASCN) or FASCN vapor treatment to convert yellow d-FAPbI 3 perovskite films to the desired pure a-phase. NMR quantifies MA incorporation into the framework. Molecular dynamics simulations show that SCN - anions promote the formation and stabilization of a-FAPbI 3 below the thermodynamic phase-transition temperature. We used these low-defect-density a-FAPbI 3 films to make PSCs with >23% power-conversion efficiency and long-term operational and thermal stability, as well as a low (330 millivolts) open-circuit voltage loss and a low (0.75 volt) turn-on voltage of electroluminescence. 
 M etal halide perovskites are being widely investigated for many applications, including solar cells (1-10), light-emitting diodes (LEDs)  (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) , lasers  (16) , and photodetectors  (17, 18) . Within a decade, the power-conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have increased from 3.8%  (19)  to 25.2%  (20) , exceeding other thin-film solar cells and the market leader, polycrystalline silicon. Since 2015, formamidinium (FA) has been the preferred cation used in almost all high-efficiency PSCs because these formulations are thermally more stable than perovskites containing methylammonium (MA) and because FA's narrower bandgap is closer to the Shockley-Queisser optimum (4). Our previous molecular dynamics (MD) studies showed that FA reorientation was faster than that of MA on the A-cation site of the perovskite, which led to enhanced stabilization and slower charge-carrier recombination  (21, 22) . Also, FAPbI 3 has a Goldschmidt tolerance factor of 0.99  (2) , which suggests a perfect crystalline perovskite structure with minimum distortions. Thus, FAPbI 3 perovskite could be an ideal candidate for efficient, stable PSCs. Unfortunately, a photoinactive d form of FAPbI 3 is the most stable phase at room temperature, and the crystallinity of FAPbI 3 film is normally poor even after high-temperature annealing. To avoid formation of the d-phase and to improve crystallinity, various complex perovskite compositions have been developed. For example, a combination of MA, Cs, and Br is commonly mixed with FAPbI 3 , especially for the record high-efficiency PSCs  (2, 3, 5, 6) . However, these mixed-perovskite compositions show an unwanted blue shift in their light absorption. Moreover, the mixed-perovskite precursor solutions can easily form precipitates when they are used for scale-up fabrications. Furthermore, MA is thermally unstable  (4, 23) , and Br/I mixtures suffer from severe ion segregations under long-term light illuminations  (24) . Thus, a mixing strategy may be unfavorable for long-term operational stability. Our previous work showed that mixing Cs and Rb with FAPbI 3 could be an alternative way to improve the operational stability (4), but the resulting PCE was still smaller than that reported for the most efficient PSCs. Obtaining efficient, phase-pure, stable FAPbI 3 perovskite layers is of vital importance for the perovskite research field. In contrast to the previous mixing strategies, manipulation of surface energy has been reported to stabilize perovskite phases and modify the grain growth orientations  (25) (26) (27) (28) (29) . For example, templated growth of oriented layered perovskites has been demonstrated for two-dimensional (2D) perovskites  (28) , and epitaxial growth and stabilization of a-FAPbI 3 has been reported recently  (29) . Swarnkar et al. showed that a-CsPbI 3 can be stabilized in the form of colloidal quantum dots because of a large contribution of surface energy  (26) . Fu et al. reported that functionalizing the surface of FAPbI 3 with large organic molecules could lower the formation energy to stabilize a-FAPbI 3 at room temperature  (27) . However, the performance, stability, or both in these systems is still poor compared with those of mixed cation-halide PSCs  (25) . Motivated by these promising strategies of surface energy manipulations and our recent work using polyiodide vapor for scalable perovskites  (30) , we developed a MA thiocyanate (MASCN) or FASCN vapor treatment method for preparing efficient and stable a-FAPbI 3 PSCs. 
 Characterization of FAPbI 3 films Figure  1A  illustrates the steps of this vapor treatment process. Yellow d-FAPbI 3 film was obtained by spin-coating a precursor solution of equal molar FAI and PbI 2 mixture. The asfabricated d-FAPbI 3 film was annealed at 100°C for 1 min. Then, the annealed film was put in a MASCN vapor environment for ~5 s until the yellow color changed to black. This vapor treatment was done under normal pressure because MASCN has a sublimation point of <100°C, which renders the entire treatment process low cost and of practical interest for industrial scale-up applications. Figure  1B  shows x-ray diffraction (XRD) data of FAPbI 3 perovskite films before and after exposure to MASCN vapor, confirming a structural transformation from the yellow d-phase to the pure black a-phase. XRD data of FAPbI 3 films fabricated using the conventional method (reference FAPbI 3 ) is also shown for comparison. Our results demonstrated that the reference FAPbI 3 films contained the yellow d-phase. However, for the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films, the d-phase was effectively suppressed and the full-width at half-maxima of the reflection peaks were decreased accordingly because of the increased XRD intensities, indicating an increase in film crystallinity. Time-resolved XRD data of FAPbI 3 perovskite films under MASCN vapor treatment (fig.  S1 ) showed that the d-phase vanished after only ~5 s. In particular, the preferred orientation along the (001) plane shown in Fig.  1B  reflected a change of surface energy during the crystallization processes  (31) . Synchrotronbased 2D grazing-incidence XRD (2D-GIXRD) for FAPbI 3 films with and without MASCN vapor treatment (fig.  S2 ) performed at incident angles of 0.05°, 0.10°, and 0.40°confirmed that the preferred orientation was along the (001) plane from the near surface to the bulk region of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films. Figure  1C  illustrates the ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) absorption and the photoluminescence (PL) spectra of the reference and vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films. Identical absorption onsets as well as PL peaks at 812 nm can be seen, which implies that the vapor treatment did not induce a bandgap change. However, vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films showed stronger absorption over all wavelengths compared with the reference sample, which is consistent with the enhanced phase purity and crystallinity apparent from the XRD results. Unlike the present work, in other recent studies using MACl as an additive  (5, 32, 33) , a considerable amount of MA was doped inside the bulk FAPbI 3 . Our UV-vis absorption and PL emission matched the features of pure FAPbI 3 , unlike the results in (  5 ) and  (32) , where the features were blue-shifted. Also, the XRD peaks of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 were identical to those of the reference pure FAPbI 3 (fig.  S2 ). As can be seen in the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) top-view images shown in Fig.  1, D  and E , the grain size of FAPbI 3 films increased to ~1 mm after vapor treatment. Atomic-force microscopy images of the reference and vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films showed that the surface roughness was ~15 nm (fig.  S3,  A  and B ). The SEM images of the d-phase FAPbI 3 films, shown in fig.  S3 , C and D, demonstrate that the average grain size was ~100 nm before the vapor treatment. Figure  1 , F and G, are cross-sectional SEM images showing that the irregular reference FAPbI 3 perovskite crystals converted to monolithic grains from the top to the bottom after the vapor treatment. Our XRD data and SEM images show that vapor treatment with MASCN induced a yellow dto black a-phase transformation below the phase transition temperature together with a recrystallization of the FAPbI 3 films. We performed solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (ssNMR) spectroscopy measurements to unravel the role of MASCN during the vapor treatment. Recently, we and others have shown that ssNMR can identify cation incorporation  (22, (34) (35) (36) , halide-mixing  (37) , cation dynamics  (21) , and atomic-level interface interactions  (38)  in PSCs. We first performed 14 N-magic angle spinning (MAS)-NMR measurements to investigate the effect of atomic-level interaction from the MASCN presence on the intrinsic crystallographic symmetry of the parent FAPbI 3 lattice. The 14 N-MAS-NMR spectra of FAPbI 3 featured a 14 N spinning sideband (SSB) pattern, which corresponds to FA cation reorientation on the picosecond time scale  (21) . Figure  2, A  and B , indicate that the SSB width was altered by the MASCN surface treatment. The width of the 14 N SSB manifold was correlated with the symmetry of the cuboctahedral cavity in which FA cation reorientation took place, whereby a narrower manifold indicated a symmetry closer to cubic  (21, 22, 35) . The MASCN-treated FAPbI 3 thin film featured three to four orders of SSB less in 14 N spectrum compared with the reference FAPbI 3 film, indicative that FA was in an environment closer to cubic symmetry for the treated film. For both the reference and the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 , the central peak of the 14 N-MAS-NMR spectra had an identical shift. We concluded that MASCN was not incorporated into the perovskite lattice but rather most likely interacted with the surface of the FAPbI 3 films  (39) . During the annealing process, MA was doped into the surface of FAPbI 3 films, which was confirmed by the time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry measurements (fig.  S4 ). The concentration of both MA + and SCN -ions in the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 film decreased by a factor of >30 over a distance of ~20 nm from the surface to the bulk. The bulk of the vaportreated FAPbI 3 film showed negligible MASCN content, which was close to that of the reference FAPbI 3 film, in agreement with the 2D-GIXRD measurements. We performed 1 H-MAS-ssNMR experiments to assess the amount of MA cation that was present in FAPbI 3 after the MASCN treatment. Figure  2C  shows the 1 H spectrum of MASCN powder, which identified two distinct 1 H environments corresponding to CH 3 at 3.05 and NH 3 + at 7.45 ppm. MAPbI 3 and reference FAPbI 3 perovskites yielded signals at 3.5 and 6.5 ppm, respectively, corresponding to MA (Fig.  2D ), and at 7.5 and 8.2 ppm, respectively, corre-sponding to FA (Fig.  2E ). Figure  2F  shows the 1 H spectrum of vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskites, which for the FA protons is identical to that of reference FAPbI 3 . When the signal was enhanced eight times, small additional peaks at 3.5 and 6.3 ppm confirmed that MA was present in small quantities in a MA x FA 1-x PbI 3 environment and was not present as MASCN or any other form of MA. This agreed with 2D 1 H-1 H spin diffusion measurements, where the appearance of the cross-peak (fig.  S5 ) between MA and FA suggested that MA and FA moieties were within 10 Å of each other. We also performed quantitative solid-state 1D measurements, which indicated that the MA makes up 1.8% of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 film (see the supplementary materials, note S1). 
 MD simulations We performed MD simulations to gain insights into the vapor treatment process (fig.  S6 ). Simulation details and movies of the MD trajectories are provided in the supplementary materials. The SCN -ions on the surface of d-FAPbI 3 do not diffuse inside the face-sharing structure of d-FAPbI 3 but remain at the surface (movie S1). Because of their strong affinity to Pb 2+ ions, SCN -anions coordinate to Pb 2+ on the surface of d-FAPbI 3 (movies S2 and S3). In particular, Pb 2+ ions are coordinated with the sulfur atoms of SCN -(fig.  S7 ) strongly enough that the SCN -ions displace the iodides. This process disintegrates the top layer of facesharing octahedra and induces the transition to the corner-sharing architecture of a-FAPbI 3 . Furthermore, the disruption of the topmost surface layer with SCN -ions also helps the penetration of monovalent cations (MA + ) into the PbI 6 chains of d-FAPbI 3 , which further helps the growth of a-FAPbI 3 (movie S4), in agreement with our ssNMR analysis above. We investigated the rearrangement of ions at the surface of d-FAPbI 3 . Some parts of facesharing octahedra on the interface start to form corner-sharing Pb-I-SCN structures (fig.  S8 ). With the addition of extra SCN -ions, cornersharing structures, which contain mixtures of SCN -ions and iodides, are formed and stabilized (fig.  S9 ). The atomic view of this whole transformation from face-sharing to cornersharing octahedra is shown in Fig.  3  and movies S5 and S6. Further analysis reveals that the conversion of the face-sharing structure proceeds through the formation of edgesharing intermediates. This results mainly from the step-by-step addition of SCN -ions around the Pb 2+ ions, as seen in movies S5 and S6. Our previous studies have also shown the formation of such intermediate structures before conversion to perovskites  (40) . Some domains of the mixed-corner and face-sharing structures formed during the simulation, and we found that SCN -ions could also induce the formation of polytypes at the interface. We observed the formation of localized structures similar to the well-known 4H polytypes of FAPbI 3 (movies S6 and S7 and fig.  S10 ). We  also generated a model of a periodic structure of 4H polytype with iodides replaced by SCN - and found that this structure remained stable after variable cell first-principles density functional theory (DFT) optimization (see the supplementary materials). We conclude that SCN -ions drive and stabilize the formation of corner-sharing structures upon contact formation with MASCN, which in turn triggers the conversion to a-FAPbI 3 . This process can occur below the thermodynamic phase-transition temperature. A further illustration of the dto a-phase transition by SCN -ions from the surface to the bulk is shown in fig.  S11 . To confirm the role of SCN -, we used FASCN instead of MASCN for vapor treatment of the d-phase FAPbI 3 . This treatment formed pure a-FAPbI 3 even at an annealing temperature of only 100°C (fig.  S12 ), far below the thermodynamic phase-transition temperature. In the absence of FASCN, the reference FAPbI 3 films annealed at 100°C mainly formed the d-phase. Thus, the complete transformation from the dto a-FAPbI 3 also occurred in the absence of MA + ions, which agreed well with our MD simulations. We note that the a-phase FAPbI 3 remained kinetically stable; once the pure a-phase FAPbI 3 formed, its transition back to the d-phase was restrained by a high potential energy barrier (fig.  S13 ). 
 Photovoltaic and EL measurements After the successful preparation of pure a-FAPbI 3 with ordered and monolithic grains, we further investigated the performance of the corresponding PSCs. All PSCs were fabricated using an ITO/SnO 2 /FAPbI 3 /Spiro-MeOTAD/Au configuration {where ITO is indium tin oxide and Spiro-MeOTAD is 2,2',7,7'-tetrakis[N,N-bis(pmethoxyphenyl)amino]-9,9'-spirobifluorene} (Fig.  4A ). A cross-sectional SEM image of the full device structure is given in fig.  S14 . S16A. An efficiency of 22.4% was confirmed under the maximum power point (MPP) condition at IMT, which is near the 22.8% measured in our laboratory (fig.  S16 ). As a comparison, the J-V curves of the reference PSCs are given in fig.  S17 , which shows a relatively poor performance and large hysteresis. Figure  4C  shows the corresponding incident photon-to-electron conversion efficiency (IPCE) curve and a projected J sc of 24.3 mA/cm 2 , obtained by integrating the IPCE over the AM1.5G standard spectrum. This value matched well the J sc of 24.4 mA/cm 2 measured under the solar simulator. Steady-state power output at MPP under 1 sun light-soaking conditions is shown in fig.  S18 . The rapid response and stable output indicated efficient charge extraction and negligible charge accumulation. Once efficient carrier collection is achieved, the V oc becomes the main limiting factor for device efficiency. Figure  4D  illustrates a V oc of 1.19 V obtained for one of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 PSCs. The J-V curves for this device were measured under a cooling air flow at 20.1°C. A detailed determination of the measured V oc is shown in the supplementary materials, note S2. The temporal evolution of the V oc measured for 5 min under 0.9 sun is shown in fig.  S19 . Over this time period, the 4 of 7 V oc reached a stable plateau. From the emission spectra (Fig.  4E ), we determined an Urbach energy of 14 meV (fig.  S20 ). Using these data, the IPCE, and the reciprocity relation  (41) , we determined the theoretical radiative limit V oc to be ~1.255 V [see the supplementary materials for details of this calculation and the influence of temperature (fig.  S21 )]. Thus, our measured V oc is only 65 mV below the radiative limit, and the voltage loss compared with the bandgap is only 330 mV. We derived a bandgap of 1.52 eV for FAPbI 3 using the Tauc plot (fig.  S22 ), which is somewhat larger than reported values  (42) . To the best of our knowledge, our FAPbI 3 devices have the smallest V oc loss reported so far for PSCs, outperforming silicon solar cells and closely approaching that of GaAs photovoltaics  (43) . The V oc value is related to density of defects of the perovskite layer acting as centers for nonradiative recombination of photogenerated charge carriers. To investigate this loss channel, we measured the time-resolved PL of the reference and vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films. Figure  S23  shows that the lifetime of the vaportreated FAPbI 3 is 299.3 ns, which is 3.7 times longer than that of the reference film. A solar cell's photovoltage is directly related to the ability to extract its internal luminescence, as derived by Ross (44): V oc ¼ V oc;rad þ kT q ln h ext ð Þ where V oc,rad is the radiative limit of opencircuit voltage, k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the temperature, q is the electronic charge, and h ext is the external luminescence quantum efficiency. For any solar cell technology to approach the radiative limit, efficient external electroluminescence (EL) is a necessity  (45) . Because we obtained a V oc approaching the radiative limit V oc,rad , we expected a high external quantum efficiency of the EL (EQE EL ) from our FAPbI 3 -based PSCs. Figure  4E  shows the EL spectra of FAPbI 3 -based PSCs, which were measured under different bias voltages in ambient conditions. An EL peak position can be seen at 810 nm, consistent with the above PL results. We detected EL emission even under a low bias voltage of 0.75 V. Thermal activation can contribute to reduce the turn-on voltage below the bandgap/q of the active/emissive semiconductor. To the best of our knowledge, 0.75 V is the lowest reported turn-on voltage value for perovskite-based devices, which suggests low leakage currents, low energy loss, or both, as well as almost perfectly balanced carrier injection and low nonradiative recombination. Figure  4F  shows an EQE EL of 6.5% for an injection current density of 25 mA/cm 2 (corresponding to the J sc measured under 1 sun illumination). This result translated into a nonradiative loss low as 70 mV (see the supplementary materials, note S2), which surpasses the reported values in the literature and even light emission from the best silicon solar cells. The measured EQE EL was actually underestimated because of substantial emission losses from glass sheets, which could partially explain the 5-mV difference between the measured and predicted nonradiative loss. An even higher 8.6% EQE EL was achieved with an injected current density <100 mA/cm 2 . These EQE EL values are among the highest ones reported in the literature. Compared with results published recently  (5, 45) , our driving voltage was substantially smaller, resulting in an exceptional high peak wall-plug efficiency of 7.5% with a low bias voltage of 1.55 V (fig.  S24 ). Our devices exhibited a low rolloff under injected current densities up to 300 mA/cm 2 (fig.  S25 ). These results contrast with the difficulties to reach high efficiency at high current densities, which has been a challenge for the other reported perovskite devices  (5, 46) , as well as organic LEDs  (13) . Therefore, our FAPbI 3 -based PSCs compare favorably with the state-of-the-art perovskite-based LEDs and even other organic LEDs. 
 Stability measurements We investigated the operational stability of our FAPbI 3 -based PSCs because stability issues remain the main obstacle to the commercialization of PSCs. Reports of long-term stability under MPP-tracking conditions (operational stability) is still scarce for PSCs with a PCE exceeding 22%  (3, 5) . Unexpectedly, the reported operational stability of some high-efficiency PSCs, in which 2D structures, Cs, or both have been used to improve the device stability, remains low  (25, 47, 48) . Recently, Seo et al. improved the stability using poly(3-hexylthiophene) as the hole-transporting material  (6) . However, the stability of their reference cell with standard Spiro-MeOTAD lagged far behind. We determined the phase stability of the MASCN vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films under long-term heat stress at 85°C in an inert N 2 environment because FAPbI 3 undergoes a transition to a yellow phase below 150°C. Figure  S26A  shows the XRD data of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 films annealed up to 500 hours. The black a-phase for all vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskite films persisted even after 500 hours of annealing at 85°C. Conversely, the reference FAPbI 3 films degraded severely during the heat test and formed mainly PbI 2 (fig.  S26B ). We also investigated the shelf life of our vaportreated FAPbI 3 -based PSCs (fig.  S27 ) and, after 2500 hours of storage in a dry box, the PCE remained at 97.8% of its initial value. We performed long-term operational stability tests for 500 hours with MPP tracking under continuous 1 sun illumination for our FAPbI 3 PSCs. Figure  5A  shows that the PCE of our FAPbI 3 PSCs remained at ~90% of the initial value (21.4%) after 500 hours of MPP measurements. The PCE partially recovered to 20.2%, which is 94.4% of the initial value after 12 hours of rest in open-circuit conditions in the dark, consistent with our previous reports  (49) . PV metrics derived from the J-V curves, including V oc , J sc , FF, and the hysteresis factor (P rev /P for ), are shown in Fig.  5 , B to E. The V oc and J sc remained constant during 500 hours of MPP tracking, and the hysteresis factor remained near unity, suggesting minimal electronic charge trapping at interfaces. The main degradation of our PSCs was the FF decline from 0.77 to 0.70 over the lightsoaking period. However, the FF largely recovered when the cell was left in the dark for a few hours, as shown by the final red point in Fig.  5D . Thus, the FF decrease was a reversible phenomenon and did not indicate permanent degradation of the device. During long-term light soaking, the PSC was subjected to an electric field originating from the voltage difference across the device at MPP. This electric field in turn caused migration of Li + ions across the film and dedoping of the hole conductor. As a result, the hole transport resistance increased, explaining the observed decline of FF. In the dark, the internal field vanished and the hole conductor recuperated most of the Li + ions, which led to the recovery of FF. Our devices did not exhibit appreciable hysteresis, which ruled out the decrease of the FF arising from ion movement within the perovskite layer and their trapping at charge defects present at the interface of the perovskite film with the electron or hole-selective contact material. How-ever, apart from the outflow of Li + ions, inflow of iodide could dedope the hole conductor and increase the series resistance, which would contribute to the observed decrease of the FF  (9) . 
 Methods summary PSCs were fabricated using an ITO/SnO 2 / FAPbI 3 /Spiro-MeOTAD/Au configuration. ITO substrates were etched and properly cleaned before the deposition of an SnO 2 electrontransport layer. Commercially available SnO 2 nanoparticle solution was diluted and spincoated onto the cleaned ITO substrates in ambient air conditions, similar to previous reports  (5) . Then, the substrates were annealed at 150°C for 30 min. Just before perovskite layer deposition, the SnO 2 layer was treated with UV-ozone for 15 min. The FAPbI 3 perovskite precursor solution was spin-coated on top of the as-fabricated SnO 2 layer, and chlorobenzene was used as an antisolvent during the spincoating process. For the reference FAPbI 3 , the spin-coated perovskite film was annealed at 100°C for 1 min and then at 150°C for 20 min. For the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 , after 1 min of annealing at 100°C, the yellow d-phase FAPbI 3 film was put on top of the MASCN or FASCN vapor atmosphere for 5 s until the color of the film changed from yellow to black. The MASCN or FASCN vapor atmosphere was generated by heating these substances on a hot plate. After the annealing, the FAPbI 3 perovskite film was passivated by choline chloride. For the hole-transport layer, a Spiro-OMeTAD solution was spin-coated on top of the perovskite. Finally, 80-nm gold was evaporated under high vacuum. For the MD simulations, we constructed a large supercell of d-phase FAPbI 3 with 28,800 atoms (2400 stoichiometric units of FAPbI 3 ). We followed a similar procedure as used in our previous work  (50) . Considering that polytypes play an important role in the crystallization of FAPbI 3 , we upgraded the previously used force field to be able to simulate all of the experimentally known polytypes (2H, 4H, 6H, and 3C) of FAPbI 3 . At first, we equilibrated this supercell by performing 10-ns variable-cell isothermal-isobaric simulations at 370 K. Next, we exposed this supercell to MA + and SCN - ions (fig.  S6 ). With this setup, we again performed an equilibrium run for 2 ns in an isothermal-isobaric ensemble at 370 K with a force field for SCN -ions available from literature  (51) . Interaction parameters between different heterogeneous species were calculated with mixing rules. All production runs were performed in an isothermal-isobaric ensemble ranging from 20 to 100 ns. All simulations were performed with Large-Scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) code (31 March 2017)  (52) . More details of the materials, device fabrication, characterization, MD simulation, and DFT calculations can be found in the supplementary materials. Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. FAPbI 3 perovskite film characterization. (A) Simplified scheme presenting the MASCN vapor treatment process for pure black-phase FAPbI 3 perovskite films. (B) XRD patterns of FAPbI 3 perovskite films before (yellow) and after (red) vapor treatments, as well as the reference FAPbI 3 perovskite films fabricated with the conventional method. The black diamond indicates PbI 2 species. (C) UV-vis absorption and PL spectra of vapor-treated and reference FAPbI 3 perovskite films. (D and E) Top-view SEM images of (D) the reference FAPbI 3 perovskite films and (E) vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskite films. (F and G) Cross-sectional SEM images of (F) the reference FAPbI 3 perovskite films and (G) vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskite films. Scale bar, 1 mm. 
 3 of 7 2 37 .14 N-and 1 H-MAS-ssNMR spectroscopy measurements. (A and B) 14 N-MAS-ssNMR spectra at 21.1 T, 298 K, and 5 kHz MAS of (A) reference FAPbI 3 perovskites and (B) vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskites. (C to F) 1 H-MAS-ssNMR spectra at 21.1 T, 298 K, and 20 kHz MAS of (C) MASCN powder, (D) bulkmechanochemical MAPbI 3 , (E) reference FAPbI 3 perovskites, and (F) vapor-treated FAPbI 3 perovskites. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. MD simulations showing a structural conversion. Representative snapshot from the MD simulations showing a structural conversion of (A) the initial face-sharing octahedra and (B) the corner-sharing octahedra. Pb-I octahedra are shown in green; iodide is shown as orange balls on corners. To highlight the structural transformation, red was chosen for octahedra on the interface. FA + and MA + ions are not shown for clarity. Selected SCN -ions are shown as ball and stick representations: sulfur is yellow, carbon is light blue, and nitrogen is dark blue (the other SCN -ions are not shown for clarity). 
 Figure 4B demonstrates a PCE of 23.1% for one of our best FAPbI 3 PSCs with a short-circuit current density (J sc ) of 24.4 mA/cm 2 , open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 1.165 V, and fill factor (FF) of 81.3%. This device also exhibited negligible hysteresis under both forward and reverse scans between 0 and 1.2 V. Details on the reproducibility of this vapor treatment technique are provided in fig. S15. We validated the performance of our PSCs at the Photovoltaic Laboratory of the Institute of Micro Technique (IMT), Neuchâtel, Switzerland. The Wacom high-precision class AAA solar simulator available at the IMT photovoltaic laboratory closely mimics the solar spectrum in the absorption range of the PSCs in the range of 350 to 850 nm, avoiding any substantial spectral mismatch between the simulated and true AM1.5G solar light source. The solar spectrum of the Wacom lamp is shown in the insert in fig. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. Vapor-treated FAPbI 3 -based PSC characterization. (A) Simplified graph of planar-structure FAPbI 3 PSCs. (B) J-V curves under both reverse and forward scan directions and power outputs under different bias voltages. (C) IPCE curve of FAPbI 3 PSCs over 300-to 900-nm wavelengths and integrated J sc over the AM1.5G standard spectrum. (D) J-V curve of FAPbI 3 PSCs with a V oc of 1.19 V (measured at T = 20.1°C). (E) EL spectra of FAPbI 3 PSCs under different bias voltages from 0.75 to 1 V. (F) EQE EL and current density of FAPbI 3 PSCs under bias voltages from 0 to 1.8 V; a photograph of the luminescence of FAPbI 3 PSCs under 1.45 V bias voltage shown in the inset. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. Operational stability test of the vapor-treated FAPbI 3 -based PSCs. Tests were performed under 500 hours of MPP-tracking conditions for (A) PCE, (B) J sc , (C) V oc , (D) FF, and (E) hysteresis factor (P rev /P for ). 
 
			 on November 5, 2020 http://science.sciencemag.org/ Downloaded from 
			 http://science.sciencemag.org/ Downloaded from 
			 of 
			 RESEARCH | RESEARCH ARTICLE on November 5, 2020 http://science.sciencemag.org/ Downloaded from 
			 of 7 RESEARCH | RESEARCH ARTICLE on November 5, 2020 http://science.sciencemag.org/ Downloaded from
Paper #: 323_3
Title: Operando monitoring of the solution-mediated discharge and charge processes in a Na-O2 battery using liquid-electrochemical TEM
Despite the fact that in sodium-oxygen (Na-O 2 ) batteries show promise as high-energy storage 28 systems, this technology is still the subject of intense fundamental research, owing to the 29 complex reaction by which it operates. To understand the formation mechanism of the 30 discharge product, sodium superoxide (NaO 2 ), advanced experimental tools must be 31 developed. Here we present for the first time the use of a Na-O 2 micro-battery using a liquid 32 aprotic electrolyte coupled with fast imaging transmission electron microscopy to visualize, in 33 real time, the mechanism of NaO 2 nucleation/growth. We observe that the formation of NaO 2 34 cubes during reduction occurs by a solution-mediated nucleation process. Furthermore, we 35 unambiguously demonstrate that the subsequent oxidation of NaO 2 , of which little is known, 36 also proceeds via a solution mechanism. We also provide insight into the cell electrochemistry 37 via the visualization of an outer shell of parasitic reaction product, formed through chemical 38 reaction at the interface between the growing NaO 2 cubes and the electrolyte, and suggest that 39 this process is responsible for the poor cyclability of Na-O 2 batteries. The assessment of the 40 discharge-charge mechanistic in Na-O 2 batteries through operando electrochemical TEM 41 visualization should facilitate the development of this battery technology. 42
Introduction 50 Compared to Li/Na-ion batteries, in which reversible energy storage relies on the use of redox 51 active transition metal oxides as positive electrodes, the metal-O 2 battery systems would 52 theoretically offer greater energy density owing to the use the redox of gaseous oxygen using 53 conductive and light carbon electrodes.  1, 2  The aprotic lithium-oxygen (Li-O 2 ) system has 54 been widely studied since the early demonstration of reversibility by K.M.  Abraham. 3  55 Nevertheless, recent developments clearly pointed out towards drastic limitations in terms of 56 round trip efficiency as well as coulombic efficiency due to copious parasitic reactions of the 57 discharge product lithium peroxide (Li 2 O 2 ) with both the conductive electrode and the 58 electrolyte.  [4] [5] [6]  Following this conclusion, the sodium-oxygen (Na-O 2 ) system was then 59 proposed as a viable alternative due to its theoretical energy density of 1100 Wh/kg combined 60 with a better round trip efficiency and presumably limited parasitic reactions.  7  The Na-O 2 61 system is still, however, in its infancy, owing to several unresolved challenges, such as 62 limited capacities and low cyclability.  8, 9  Hence, the initial excitement was quickly 63 counterpoised by the recent discoveries highlighting the unstable nature of the superoxide 64 discharge product sodium superoxide (NaO 2 ) that reacts with glyme-ethers solvent commonly 65 used in these systems. Despite these evident limitations, this system has been seen as an 66 interesting case study to better understand the complex redox reaction of oxygen in aprotic 67 solvent that involves a gas to solid phase transformation. Only mastering these complex 68 transformations will eventually trigger the development of rechargeable metal-O 2 batteries 69 and deliver the initial promises offered by the large energy density for these systems. 70 Further efforts are thus required to understand and master the formation and decomposition 71 processes of the micron-sized cubic NaO 2 product, which is at the core of the Na-O 2 72 electrochemistry and still under heavy debate. Contradictory results discussing either a 73 solution-mediated discharge and charge reaction, the need for phase transfer catalysts (e.g.: 74 H 2 O) that increases the solubility of NaO 2 , or an electrode-surface directed mechanism, leave 75 the question for the fundamental reaction path unanswered.  5, [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17]  One reason for that is surely 76 the high sensitivity of the NaO 2 product and its reactivity towards moisture  18, 19  , CO 2 20, 21 and 77 other electrolyte impurities, which makes any analysis by ex situ methods extremely difficult. 78 This also explains the absence of a common consensus regarding the parameters controlling 79 the formation of NaO 2 as well as the underpinning mechanism for NaO 2 decomposition.  5, 10-17 80  Another challenge of the Na-O 2 system is associated to its unsatisfactory cyclability, where 81 recent papers have demonstrated that the fast death of the battery, after only few cycles, is 82 associated to the low stability of the NaO 2 discharge product.  8, 22  Others further identified the 83 detrimental ability of NaO 2 to trigger parasitic reactions, where the origin of the parasitic 84 reactions includes the oxidation of the electrolyte and the carbon electrode, consequently 85 forming side products such as carbonates, carboxylates, formates and acetates.  8, [23] [24] [25]  However, 86 such results were obtained ex situ, hence leaving questions concerning the underpinning 87 mechanism or the effect of post-mortem sample handling, open. 88 Altogether, these studies clearly demonstrate the complexity of the Na-O 2 system, which have 89 slowed down its development. Thus, there is a need to move away from the conventional 90 analytical ex situ characterization methods and develop operando techniques to pin-down 91 fundamental mechanisms in real-time.  26  The recent development of liquid cell for 92 transmission electron microscopy 27 enables an exciting opportunity to explore  28, 29  and even 93 quantify  [30] [31] [32]  complex electrochemical reactions occurring inside batteries during operation. In 94 the present study, we monitor for the first time the discharge and charge reactions occurring in 95 a liquid aprotic Na-O 2 battery by using an operando electrochemical (scanning) transmission 96 electron microscopy (STEM and TEM) Na-O 2 micro battery setup coupled with fast imaging. 97 This setup enables us to unambiguously prove that not only does the growth occur by a 98 solution-mediated processes in glyme-ether electrolytes, but so does the oxidation of NaO 2 99 cubes. Further, we visualize the formation of side products leading to the formation of 100 parasitic shell at the interface between NaO 2 crystals and the electrolyte, which remains as 101 solid residues on the electrode after charge. 102 Benchmarking the Na-O 2 micro-battery setup 103 Figure  1  shows a schematic of the micro-battery based on the electrochemical TEM cell 104 configuration (a-d) used throughout this work for the operando imaging of sub-micrometric 105 features during redox reactions at the positive carbon electrode (e). The operando cell was 106 assembled using an oxygen-saturated electrolyte made of 0.5M NaPF 6 dissolved into 107 monoglyme (DME), which contains < 20 ppm of water as determined by Karl-Fischer 108 titration. To establish its electrochemical performance, the operando cell was charged and 109 discharged in a cyclic-voltammetry mode, using a sweep rate of 10 mV/s between and Pt as 110 counter and pseudo-reference electrodes (Supplementary Figure  S1 ). Such conditions were 111 used due to the extremely small size of the cell setup, restricting the volume of the electrolyte 112 as well as the available amount of dissolved O 2 . We first verified that these conditions provide 113 similar results as classical Swagelok cells, with namely the formation of discharge products 114 consisting of plentiful cubes (Figure  2a  and 2b ), which were identified as NaO 2 by combining 115 energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) as 116 discussed later in greater detail. 117 Equally, the inhomogeneous dispersion in size and morphology for the cubes obtained on the 130 glassy carbon electrode (GC) in the operando cell (loaded with liquid electrolyte) Figure  2d  -131 f, compares well with NaO 2 cubes found in Swagelok-cells on carbon fibers (Figure  2a  and 132 2f).  33, 34  Nevertheless, smaller NaO 2 cubes are formed with the operando TEM cell (0.5 -1 133 µm) that is explained by the geometry of the cell, i.e. the reduced distance between the two 134 where the electrolyte is saturated by the electrochemically produced NaO 2 soluble species 157 (image at 5 s, cathodic current in CV of Figure  S1 ), a point of super saturation is then reached 158 as characterized by the formation of small NaO 2 nuclei on the electrode surface (image at 10 159 s). This initial incubation period, where cathodic current corresponding to the electrochemical 160 formation of soluble NaO 2 is measured but no product is formed on the electrode, is 161 characteristic of a crystal growth following a solution-precipitation mechanism and therefore 162 rules out a surface-directed growth of NaO 2 cubes, for which NaO 2 would grow as a solid 163 following the cathodic current. Such nuclei subsequently grow in an isotropic manner (images 164 at 15 -60 s), by deposition of solvated NaO 2 on the surface of cubes. This growth ultimately 165 leads to the formation of NaO 2 cubes with a size of approx. 500 nm (image at 60 s). Hence, 166 three stages for the solution-mediated cube-growth precipitation process, similar to the first 167 description given by Janek and coworkers, 15 could be spotted. First, soluble NaO 2 is 168 electrochemically formed and quickly saturate the electrolyte (owing from the low solubility 169 of NaO 2 in organic solvents)  15, 34  . Once supersaturation of the electrolyte is reached, small 170 aggregates of solvated (NaO 2 ) n species precipitate in the form of small NaO 2 nuclei on the 171 carbon electrode. Finally, upon discharge, soluble NaO 2 species are consistently produced and 172 deposit on the high surface energy nuclei, which ultimately grow into larger NaO 2 cubes. We 173 would like to emphasize here is that the electrode surface in Figure  3  sequence a and e, is hard 174 to visualize owing to the thick layer of electrolyte between the electrode and the Si 3 N 4 175 window. Hence, to facilitate its identification, a thin white line is used, as a guide to the 176 reader, to indicate the electrode border in TEM image in Figure  3 b . 177 178 Further exploiting the capability of the TEM setup, we visualize the sequential size evolution 179 of several cubes (Figure  3  b, supplementary Video S2). As NaO 2 is an insulator  15, 16  and 180 cannot grow by electrodeposition, it is evident that the gradual growth occurs by deposition of 181 NaO 2 from the solution at the outer crystal surface. For better quantification, the particle size 182 evolution during discharge as a function of the growth time was plotted, which revealed the 183 non-linear intermittent growth rate (Figure  3 c ). Initially, the electrolyte is being saturated 184 with electrochemically generated NaO 2 and no significant deposit can be observed. Once the 185 saturation limit is reached, a rapid increase of the cube size is observed, which could be 186 associated with the large concentration of NaO 2(solv) in solution at the point of super 187 saturation. This initial burst is then followed by step-wise regime associated with domains of 188 By moving to ex situ TEM, EDX and SAED analysis, we could provide further insights in 233 both the chemical composition and the morphology of this shell (Figure  5 ). Note that this 234 shell, which is separated from crystalline NaO 2 cube by a darker line (in the HAADF-STEM 235 mode), can be found on the surface of every cube (Figure  5   situ TEM setup (Supplementary Figure  S6 ). This validates the observations made by the 270 operando-cell and further exclude beam damage as the sole origin for the formation of this 271 shell. 272 To gain deeper understanding about this shell, XPS spectra of discharged GDL electrodes 273 were collected at various stages of discharge (Supplementary Figure  S2 ). The C1s spectra 274 reveal the constant evolution of a parasitic carbonate-like species during discharge. To 275 quantify the amount of these carbonates generated upon discharge, we relied on the method 276 first described by Thotiyl et al.  35  that consist in the use of acid (H 3 PO 4 ) and Fentons`s reagent 277 are used to decompose inorganic and organic carbonates, with the CO 2 generated through 278 their decomposition being subsequently sampled by a mass spectrometer. 279 The released CO 2 concentration at various stages of discharge (Figure  6 ) indirectly, 280 demonstrates the significant amount of inorganic Na 2 CO 3 and organic carboxylates formed on 281 the surface of carbon electrodes. Upon discharge, the concentration of inorganic carbonates 282 significantly increases (Figure  6  b), and this is in agreement with the growth of the shell 283 observed in Figure  4a . Moreover, when comparing the concentration of Na 2 CO 3 at the end of 284 discharge with the results obtained at the end of charge, a limited increase is found for GDL 285 electrodes, demonstrating that the parasitic products cannot be reoxidized and remain on the 286 electrode surface at the end of charge (Figure  6b ). This result highlights the importance of 287 mastering this interface for decreasing the rate of parasitic product formation. 288 289 290 Figure  6 : Discharge-charge profiles for GDL electrode at a rate of 25 µA/cm 2 (a). Amount 291 of CO 2 evolved from the GDL electrode when removed from the cells at different states of 292 discharge and charge and treated with acid and Fenton's reagent to decompose Na 2 CO 3 and 293 organic carboxylates (b). CO 2 evolution originating from the instability of electrode and 294 electrolyte as deduced from the discharge of 13 C-carbon electrodes at various discharge rates 295 between 25 -250 uA/cm 2 (c). 12 CO 2 evolution indicates the electrolyte degradation leading to 296 inorganic carbonates (black) and organic carboxylates (red) whereas 13 CO 2 detection results 297 from the direct decomposition of the carbon electrodes. 298 299 Finally, to clarify the origin of the carbonate side product formation, which can result from 300 the electrolyte and/or from the electrode decomposition, discharge experiments using 13 C-301 labeled electrodes with the released CO 2 isotopes being detected by mass Spectrometry 302 analysis. These isotopic experiments revealed the presence of both 13 CO 2 and 12 CO 2 at the end 303 of discharge, which can only be explained by the decomposition of both the electrode surface 304 and the electrolyte, respectively (Figure  6c ). However, the observed 12 C fraction was much 305 larger than the 13 C one, demonstrating that the majority of parasitic carbonates originates from 306 the instability of the glyme-electrolyte in contact with the highly oxidizing NaO 2 discharge 307 product. Again, this result corroborates the shell formation we observed in Figure  4 . 308 Additionally, we observed that upon elevated discharge currents, the amount of products 309 originating from the decomposition reactions increases, with a prominent contribution from 310 the electrode decomposition (Figure  6c ), hence implying that an electrochemically-driven-311 electrode decomposition is also at play during discharge of Na-O 2 batteries. 312 Altogether, these experiments reveal the high reactivity of NaO 2 and further disproves, 313 together with previous literature reports,  8, [23] [24] [25]  the initial claim of improved stability for Na-314 O 2 batteries when compared to Li-O 2 ones. 5 315 316 Overall, the combination of the time-resolved TEM as well as ex situ observations reveal that 317 parasitic reactions in glyme-ether based Na-O 2 batteries constantly occur during discharge, 318 demonstrating the strong reactivity of NaO 2 towards the electrolyte and potentially residual 319 impurities such as e.g.: H 2 O or CO 2 18, 20, 21 or even the generation of singlet O 2 species, as 320 recently reported for Li-O 2 and Na-O 2 batteries.  [36] [37] [38]  At this stage, it is worth noting that the 321 carbonates are certainly not the only one kind of parasitic products formed when cycling Na-322 O 2 batteries. Indeed, several very recent reports demonstrated the high reactivity of NaO 2 323 towards the electrode, as well as towards the solvent,  8, 23, 24  where sodium carbonate and 324 carboxylate were identified to be the main parasitic products, with a variety of other side 325 products, such as formats and acetates also being found. 326 327 Overall, we believe that preventing the formation of this complex organic/inorganic shell will 328 be of prime importance to mitigate the drastic capacity loss observed upon cycling with 329 todays' Na-O 2 cells, which will be discussed in greater details below. 330 Encouraged by the mechanistic insight provided by operando TEM during the discharge of 332 Na-O 2 battery, we decided to explore the oxidation process following the same methodology. 333 From a sequence of images collected by HAADF-STEM (Supplementary Video S4), the 334 gradual dissolution of NaO 2 cubes during oxidation can be observed (Figure  7 ). More 335 importantly, this visualization shows that cubes dissolve concentrically from the outside 336 inwards. In detail, the 3D visualization of the processes at play during charge illustrate that 337 the dissolution of the cubes initially proceeds from the top surface, i.e. at the interface 338 between the cube and the electrolyte, leading to a steady decrease in size of the cube (Figure  7  339 a-d). This is in contrast to the previously reported electrode directed charge-transfer, i.e. the 340 direct oxidation of the cubes at the interface with the electrode.  12  To gain deeper insight into 341 this dissolution process, the height-profile evolution was followed for one cube throughout 342 the complete oxidation (Figure  7  e-h). From this profile, it can be observed that cubes, despite 343 being covered by the parasitic shell, start to dissolve from the top, i.e. the face exposed to the 344 electrolyte, hence demonstrating the porous nature of the organic shell. Upon further 345 charging, the overall height profile continuously decreases from the top of the cube, further 346 suggesting a collapse of the parasitic shell during charge. Ultimately, parts of the shell remain 347 at the end of charge spread on the surface of the electrode, visualized in Figure  7  i as a 348 patchwork and by the "walls" at 50 and 300 nm in the linear profile in Figure  7  h. This is in 349 good agreement with our ex situ observations where parasitic residues (organic and inorganic) 350 are found on the GDL carbon fibers after charge (Figure  6 ), as well as with previous reports. 8 351 Altogether, these new information shine light on a so-far poorly explained phenomenon, 352 namely the constant columbic losses measured upon cycling. Subsequent cycling will indeed 353 generate additional parasitic products that will accumulate at the electrode surface, ultimately 354 causing a rapid capacity loss and a drastic self-discharge. 355 In light of the solvation-desolvation equilibrium discussed above, our operando electron 357 microscopy measurements provide the definitive demonstration that the oxidation process in 358 Na-O 2 batteries follows a solution-mediated mechanism, as previously proposed 15 based on 359 the significant solubility of NaO 2 , 15, 34 its low dissolution energy 10, 13 as well as its insulating 360 nature that would prohibit direct oxidation at the electrode.  15, 16  During charge, solvated 361 NaO 2(solv) is oxidized at the electrode surface into Na + and O 2(g) , hence displacing the 362 equilibrium NaO 2(solid) = NaO 2(solv) to the right and forcing the dissolution of the cubes. 363 Through this process, the bottom edges of the non-conducting cubes, in direct contact with the 364 electrode surface, remain throughout the charge as evidenced by TEM. This clearly contrasts 365 with the previously proposed mechanism for which a direct charge transfer between the solid 366 and the electrode/current collector was a requirement. 12 367 368 Finally, we explored the consequences of the formation of parasitic products at the electrode 369 surface on subsequent cycles and NaO 2 formation. This revealed that NaO 2 nuclei were 370 exclusively formed during the second discharge on the uncovered, pristine electrode surface 371 (Supplementary Video S5). Hence, the parasitic products not only hamper the O 2(g) redox 372 reaction but also hinder NaO 2 nucleation on the carbon surface. In short, this study shows that 373 the formation of parasitic products has its origin in the high chemical reactivity of the NaO 2 374 cube surface, initially suspected to be less reactive than Li 2 O 2. 5 This highlights the need for a 375 new class of electrolytes that are stable against attack from NaO 2 . 376 process, we provide conclusive evidence that the same solvation-desolvation equilibrium is 394 responsible for the dissolution of the NaO 2 discharge product, which consumes the NaO 2 395 cubes from the NaO 2 -electrolyte interface towards the electrode and not from the cube-396 electrode interface. Therefore, we rule out the direct charge-transfer reaction as the major 397 oxidation path for NaO 2 cubes and clarify the mechanism of this widely discussed reaction. 398 Finally, we provide fundamental insights into the parasitic reactions occurring during cycling 399 of a Na-O 2 battery where time-resolved visualization revealed the chemical reactivity of NaO 2 400 at the interface with the electrolyte. As a result, parasitic products continuously accumulate on 401 the cube surface to form a thick shell surrounding the NaO 2 cubes, which passivates the 402 electrode surface as it cannot be reoxidized. This information is vital for optimization of the 403 battery, since this parasitic shell is responsible for the low efficiency during charge, as well as 404 for its poor cyclability by preventing crucial O 2 redox and further nucleation of NaO 2 . It must 405 therefore be recognized that the NaO 2 growth is solvent dependent, providing the possibility 406 of mediating the deposition process by controlling the solvation/desolvation event. Hence, 407 caution must be exercised prior to generalizing this finding. Through this first visualization of 408 the redox processes governing the Na-O 2 system, we further confirm the importance of 409 finding how the various components of the batteries locally interact with each other. We hope 410 these results will help in the development of new strategies to optimize cell components, such 411 as the electrolyte, in order to achieve high performing Na-O 2 batteries, and also serve to 412 reagent) was added. The presence of the highly reactive OH  radical (based on the Fenton`s 481 reaction: Fe 2+ + H 2 O 2 → Fe 3+ + OH  + OH -) leads to the decomposition of organic species 482 (e.g.: sodium carboxylates) into CO 2 , again released as gas due to the acidic environment. 483 Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: Schematic description of the Poseidon 510 TEM holder for operando 120 
 Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2: Comparison of Na-O 2 morphology obtained in regular Na-O 2 Swagelok cells on 138 
 Figure 3 :Figure 4 : 34 Figure 3: The time-resolved and animated operando TEM images illustrate the 203 
 PageFigure 5 : 5 Figure 5: Ex situ analysis (dry condition) of the discharge product. HAADF-STEM overview 261 
 Figure 7 :Page 7 Figure 7: HAADF-STEM imaging of the charge process. Animated images at different depth 379 
 Page Dimethoxyethane (DME, 99.9%) was purchased from Sigma Aldrich and (NaPF 6 99.9 %) 417 was bought from Stella Chemifa. Solvents were dried by means of molecular sieves for 5 days 418
