Paper #: 3501_1
Title: Role of passivation ligand in exciton diffusion and emission mechanism of metal halide perovskite nanocrystal solid
Shorter-ligand passivated metal halide perovskite nanocrystal (PNC) solids possess smaller inter-NC edge distance which can potentially activate shorter-range nonradiative routes of energy transfer. However, these PNCs are prone to develop surface defects due to ligand detachment and the photogenerated excitons also have high probability to undergo dissociation. It remains unclear how these factors influence the exciton diffusion and emission mechanism of PNC solids. Herein, we prepare two PNC solids passivated with alkylamine and alkylacid ligands of different chain lengths and investigate the exciton diffusion and emission properties by combining time-resolved photoluminescence (PL) and low temperature PL spectroscopy. Our results show that due to the easy ligand detachment and rich surface defects, no prominent exciton transfer occurs in PNC solid passivated with short ligands, despite of the shorter distance between adjacent PNCs. In comparison, the PNC solid passivated with long ligands shows significant occurrence of exciton diffusion from high energy sites towards low energy sites. Accordingly, the PL spectra of thick PNC solid passivated with different ligands show a strikingly different evolution trend with decreasing temperature: in short ligand passivated PNC solid, an intrinsic emission is observed along with a defect-related emission arising from carrier trapping and subsequent radiative recombination, and both emissions are enhanced at lower temperature; in long ligand passivated PNC solid, high energy emission quenches while low energy emission is strengthened at lower temperature due to enhanced exciton transfer. This work reveals that the exciton diffusion and emission properties of PNC solid is strongly mediated by the passivation ligands, providing important insights for their applications in optoelectronic devices.
Introduction Halide perovskites are a class of semiconductors with chemical formular ABX 3 in which A + is CH 3 NH 3 + , CH 4 (NH 2 ) + , or Cs + , B 2+ represents Pb 2+ or Sn 2+ , and X -represents Cl -, Br -or I -  [1] . The band structure of halide perovskites largely depends on the halogen composition in X site. By changing the ratio of Cl, Br, and I, the bandgap and emission wavelength of halide perovskites can be tuned continuously across the full visible range. The emission wavelength of perovskites is also tunable through shape and size control in the nanocrystal form. Perovskite nanocrystals (PNCs) exhibit excellent photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) and have become a class of promising candidate material for light emitting diodes, lasers, and scintillators  [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] . An ensemble of PNCs often possesses optical properties differing from an isolated PNC  [9] . On one hand, due to small Stokes shift and high absorption coefficient, the emitted photon of a PNC can be re-absorbed by another. Following the reabsorption process, a new exciton is generated which can radiatively recombine and give rise to a new photon, leading to photon recycling which composes the radiative route of energy transfer  [10] [11] [12] . On the other hand, due to the strong coupling strength between adjacent PNCs, energy transfer can also occur through non-radiative hopping routes including Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET), electron exchange proposed by Dexter and tandem tunneling of electron and hole. Both radiative and non-radiative energy transfer prefers to occur along the downhill energy landscape when there is a non-uniform size distribution  [13] . Energy transfer is dominated by photon recycling in PNC ensemble with large inter-NC edge distance, such as a diluted dispersion or PNCs embedded in an insulating matrix  [14] . In an ensemble with densely packed PNC arrangements such as a solid film, the photon recycling alternates with the non-radiative exciton hopping events and as a result, the PNC solid shows pronounced energy transfer process which is usually characterized by a long exciton diffusion length. The ultralong exciton diffusion length of PNC solid is in strong contrast with that of other semiconducting NCs, such as CdSe  [15] . The exciton diffusion length varies for PNCs passivated with different capping ligands. A variety of ligands have been exploited in the colloidal solution synthesis to obtain PNCs with different sizes, shapes, and functionalities  [16] [17] [18] [19] . The most popular type of ligands is alkylamines and alkylacids, among which the long chain oleic acid and oleylamine are the most widely used  [20] . The inter-NC edge distance of such PNC solid is 2 nm and the non-radiative energy transfer is dominated by FRET mechanism  [21] [22] [23] [24] . Accordingly, the exciton diffusion length reported for this class of PNC solids is hundreds of nanometers  [25] . With decreasing length of capping ligands and narrowing of the inter-NC edge distance, other shorter-range non-radiative routes of energy transfer can be triggered, such as Dexter and tandem tunneling of electron and hole  [21, [25] [26] [27] [28] , which can potentially extend the exciton diffusion length. Nevertheless, the ligands bind to the PNC surface ionically which is imparted from the soft ionic nature of perovskite lattice. As a result, the ligands of PNCs are highly dynamic and easy to detach from surface, especially for short ligand passivated PNCs. Therefore, PNCs tend to lose ligands and develop surface vacancies  [16, 20, [29] [30] [31] . Take the mostly studied CsPbBr 3 NCs passivated with alkylamines and alkylacids as an example, the ligand detachment leads to the formation of mainly bromine vacancies  [32] . The bromine vacancies induce only shallow defect levels into the band gap in the case of bulk, described as the well-known defect tolerance of halide perovskites  [33] [34] [35] . In the case of NCs, it has been found that the ligand detachment, however, hampers the PLQY severely, because defect states of PNCs are pushed deeper into the bandgap due to the presence of a local electrostatic potential, as reported by du Fosse et al.  [36]  These relatively deep defect states thus act as carrier traps and cause non-radiative recombination, deteriorating the exciton diffusion significantly. Moreover, as the chain length of ligand shortens, the probability of exciton dissociation increases, and the proportion of free carriers increases. It remains a missing gap to investigate how these effects from different passivation ligands would influence the exciton diffusion processes and emission mechanism of a PNC solid. In this work, we synthesize CsPbBr 3 NCs passivated with pair of alkylamine and alkylacid ligands of two very different chain lengths. Our results show that PNCs passivated with short ligands (propionic acid and butylamine) are prone to develop rich defects during solid film formation due to the lower boiling point of the ligands and easier ligand detachment from NC surface. PNCs passivated with long ligands (oleic acid and oleylamine) are relatively more stable and possess lower defect density. As a result, the long ligand passivated PNC solid has obvious occurrence of exciton diffusion that is featured by an elongated decay lifetime, while the short ligand one is free of significant exciton diffusion due to rich defects despite of the shorter inter-NC distance. Due to the difference of exciton diffusion mechanism, our low temperature PL study demonstrated that thick PNC solids with short and long ligand passivation exhibit totally different PL evolution trend with decreasing temperature. This work reveals the important role of passivation ligands in exciton diffusion and emission properties of PNC solids, providing important insights for understanding the exciton property and emission mechanism in this class of materials. 
 Materials and methods 
 Synthesis of CsPbBr 3 NCs passivated by propionic acid and butylamine 0.5 mmol Cs 2 CO 3 was dissolved in 1 mL propionic acid to produce Cs-precursor, and 1.5 mmol PbBr 2 was dissolved in the mixture of 1 mL isopropanol, 1 mL propionic acid and 1 mL butylamine to produce Pbprecursor. Subsequently, 1 mL isopropanol, 20 μL Cs-precursor and 100 μL Pb-precursor were added to 2 mL hexane, inducing the nucleation and crystallization process, producing CsPbBr 3 NCs. The crude solution was centrifugated, and the obtained precipitates were dispersed in toluene, resulting in short ligand passivated CsPbBr 3 NCs. Note that the solvent hexane was used to dilute the precursor solution and allow the precursor ions to mix and react. The polar solvent isopropanol was used to destabilize the complexes of Cs + and Pb 2+ ions with the various molecules in solution, triggering the nucleation of the unreactive precursors at room temperature  [37] . 
 Synthesis of CsPbBr 3 NCs passivated by oleic acid and oleylamine We attempted to obtain long ligand passivated PNCs using the same method (solvents) which resulted in CsPbBr 3 nanoplatelets with varying thicknesses, resembling the reported results using similar method  [38] . An optimization of the synthesis conditions can give nanoplatelets with controlled thickness, which is however an unsuitable morphology for our purpose. To obtain long ligand passivated PNCs with similar shapes, we used the following method: 0.1 mmol of PbBr 2 was weighed and dissolved in 100 μL of oleic acid (OA) and 100 μL of oleylamine (OLA), which is further diluted with 10 mL of toluene. This step enables formation of PbBr 2 complex with oleic acid and oleylamine. The precipitates of shortligand CsPbBr 3 NCs were dispersed in this solution. During this treatment, short ligands of NCs were replaced by the long ligands OA and OLA. 
 Preparation and structural characterization of CsPbBr 3 NC solid film The obtained NC dispersion is drop casted on glass substrate of a thickness of about 1.5 mm and a side length of about 2 cm. Due to the fast evaporation of toluene, a solid film is formed in a very short time (about 2 min), and the film thickness was increased by repeated dropwise addition of the solution. PANalytical Empyrean was used for XRD characterization of obtained film. 
 Optical spectroscopy Absorption spectra were measured using a Shimadzu UV-3600 Plus UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometer. PL measurements were conducted in a transmission mode which composes of a continuous 405 nm LED as the excitation source and a 1 mm diameter fiber coupled to a BiaoQi-QYAS series PL spectrometer for collection of emitted photons from the other side of PNC solid. Edinburgh FLS1000 Variable Temperature Full Spectrum Steady State Transient PL Spectrometer was used for TRPL measurement, with a xenon lamp wavelength set to 450 nm and a PMT980 detector. Low temperature PL study was carried out by using an ARS CS202AE-DMX-1AL with helium cooling. 
 Results and discussion The CsPbBr 3 NCs coated by propionic acid and butylamine were synthesized from an established protocol  [37] . The as-synthesized NCs were then centrifuged and dispersed in a reagent that dissolve PbBr 2 in oleic acid and oleylamine. In this treatment, the short ligands (propionic acid and butylamine) of the NCs are replaced by long ligands (oleic acid and oleylamine). Fig.  1a   We recorded the UV-vis absorption spectra of diluted PNC solutions. As shown in Fig.  2a , the long ligand passivated PNC shows a higher above-gap absorption and a sharper absorption edge. In comparison, the short ligand passivated sample has a long below-gap absorption tail which may correspond to sub-bandgap defect states as well as some large-sized NCs. The inset of Fig.  2a  shows the fitting of absorption edge using Tauc equation, in which the obtained bandgap of long ligand passivated PNC is blueshifted compared to short ligand PNC, consistent with the TEM observations. The measured PLQY of short ligand and long ligand passivated PNC dispersions is 77 % and 84 % respectively, indicating that PbBr 2 used in the ligand exchange process probably provided some additional passivation and eliminated some of the surface traps. Such passivation effect is especially pronounced if PNCs have large surface-to-volume ratio, which has been reported for CsPbBr 3 nanoplatelets  [39] . To understand the impact of passivation ligands on the defect formation, we further monitored the PLQY evolution in real time after PNC dispersions were dropcasted onto the glass substrate. The first 2 min correspond to the solvent (toluene) evaporation and film drying process according to our observation. As shown in Fig.  2b , a similar PLQY drop rate was observed during the drying of long ligand and short ligand passivated PNCs. However, after drying, the PLQY of short ligand passivated PNC solid shows a much faster decrease than that of long ligand passivated PNC solid. We infer that this is due to different ligand desorption rate. Due to the soft ionic nature of halide perovskites, the passivation ligands bind through ionic bonds with the NC surface and exhibit highly mobile nature. Ligand detachments occur and induce formation of surface vacancies. Oleylamine (C 18 H 37 N) and oleic acid (C 18 H 34 O 2 ) are long ligands with high-boiling-point of 364 • C and 360 • C; in comparison, the boiling point of short ligands such as butylamine (C 4 H 11 N) and propionic acid (C 3 H 6 O 2 ) is much lower, which is 63 • C and 141.2 • C respectively. Short ligand passivated PNCs undergo a more significant ligand desorption, leading to development of higher surface defect density. It is possible that the developed surface vacancy sites further react with the ambient conditions (i.e. moisture, RH = 34 % in this case) which also contributes partially to the PLQY decrease. We further analysed the TRPL of fresh thin PNC solids in three detection ranges, centred at 515 nm, 525 nm and 535 nm. As presented in Fig.  3a , the TRPL of short ligand sample exhibits a much sharper decay in all three emission bands than the long ligand sample. Referring to our previous work, due to the exciton diffusion, a third slow decay component is present in the TRPL data of PNC solids, apart from two faster components that represent nonradiative and immediate radiative recombination of excitons  [13] . Accordingly, the TRPL data can be fitted better by tri-exponential function than bi-exponential one. We fitted the TRPL data by I(t) = ∑ 3 i=1 A i e - t τi , and the fitting curves are shown in solid lines in Fig.  3a . τ 1 , τ 2 and τ 3 are the three lifetimes that represent the dynamics of nonradiative, immediate radiative recombination and delayed radiative recombination of excitons, and A 1 , A 2 and A 3 are the coefficient of three lifetime components respectively. The effective lifetime can be defined as τ eff =  (1) the proportion of the first component B 1 in all the emission bands of short ligand sample reaches 85 % which is significantly higher than the long ligand sample of 30 %-40 %. This result indicates that the short ligand sample has a significantly higher defect density and thus more non-radiative recombination than the long ligand sample; (2) the third component B 3 diminishes for short ligand sample, indicating that there is no noticeable exciton diffusion for the short ligand passivated PNC film. The underlying reason is that the large number of defect density in short ligand sample leads to weak photon recycling as well as exciton hopping which significantly hinders the exciton diffusion; (3) the proportion of the third component B 3 for long ligand sample is 27~32 % for lower energy band 525 nm and 535 nm, which is higher than the 20 % of higher energy band 515 nm. This result indicates the exciton diffusion in long ligand sample is dictated by exciton transfer from high-energy sites (small NCs) towards low-energy sites (large NCs). ∑ 3 i=1 Aiτ 2 i ∑ 3 i=1 Aiτi = ∑ 3 i=1 B i τ i , among which B i = A i τ i / ∑ 3 i=1 A i τ i is the proportion of each lifetime component. The exciton diffusion impacts strongly on the emission mechanism of PNC solid as discussed in our previous work  [13] . This is more pronounced in thicker PNC solid and can be deployed better in transmission PL measurement mode. We prepared 1.8 μm thick NC films of both samples and measured the PL spectra in a transmission mode. Fig.  4a&b  reports the PL spectra of two samples in the range of 10~260 K. The PL spectra of both samples in the full temperature range can be fitted well with two peak functions (Fig.  4c&d ). Fig.  5a&b  plots the position and intensity of higher energy peak 1 and lower energy peak 2 versus temperature for both PNC solids. At 260 K, two emission peaks are located at 2.38 eV and 2.32 eV for long ligand passivated PNC solid, and at 2.33 eV and 2.28 eV for short ligand passivated one. Referring to our previous work  [13] , the peak at 2.28 eV corresponds to a defect-related emission and the other peaks can be attributed to intrinsic emission of different NC sizes. Sub-bandgap defect-related emission arises when a carrier is trapped at the defect states and recombine with the opposite charge carrier radiatively  [13, 40] . All the peak position redshifts with decreasing temperatures due to lattice shrinkage, widening of valence band and narrowing of band gap  [14, 41] . Moreover, it can be seen that at 260 K the intensity of high energy emission peak 1 dominates for both samples. With decreasing temperature, both peak 1 and peak 2 intensity  of short ligand sample increase; in comparison, peak 2 intensity increases while peak 1 intensity decreases for the long ligand sample. As a result, the PL shape of short ligand sample does not change significantly, while that of long ligand sample starts showing obvious two-peak feature with decreasing temperature. We infer that the discrepancy arises from different emission mechanism of two samples. As depicted in Fig.  5c , we infer that peak 1 and 2 of short ligand passivated PNC represent the intrinsic emission and defect-related emission respectively. Since excitons in short ligand passivated PNC solid dissociate easily into free carriers at relatively high temperature (i.e. 260 K), emission peak 1 exhibits extremely low intensity. Meanwhile, the defect emission peak 2 is weak at relatively high temperature (i.e. 260 K) due to thermally activated carrier detrapping process from the defect state to band edge. When the temperature decreases, exciton dissociation is inhibited, leading to an increase of its intrinsic emission peak 1; besides, since detrapping is hindered at lower temperatures, the defect emission peak 2 increases. The emission mechanism of long ligand sample is illustrated in Fig.  5d , in which we speculate that peak 1 and peak 2 of the long ligand passivated PNC solid represent the emissions of different NC sizes. The exciton transfer from high-energy sites (small NCs) towards low-energy sites (large NCs) is enhanced at low temperature. Accordingly, the intensity of low energy peak 2 increases with decreasing temperature, and high energy peak 1 decreases simultaneously. This speculation of enhanced exciton transfer at low temperature is based on a model previously reported for CdSe/ZnS quantum dot  [42] , which is also valid for CsPbBr 3 NCs, as demonstrated in our previous work  [13] . Note that the emission of various NC sizes in short ligand sample is convoluted in the intrinsic emission feature. Because the exciton transfer is negligible in short ligand sample, emission from various NC sizes evolutes simultaneously with varying temperature. 
 Conclusions We prepared CsPbBr 3 NCs passivated with two different alkylamine and alkylacid pair: long chain oleic acid and oleylamine, and short chain propionic acid and butylamine. Due to the lower boiling point, the short ligand passivated PNCs are more prone to undergo ligand detachment during solid film formation and develop higher surface defects. We performed time-resolved PL on these two PNC solids to compare their decay dynamics. Our results show that the emission of short ligand passivated PNC solid decays more sharply due to the significant nonradiative recombination caused by the higher defect density. As a result, the short ligand passivated sample exhibits a negligible exciton diffusion effect despite of their shorter inter-NC distance that would otherwise trigger shorter-distance interaction mechanisms and enhancing the hopping between adjacent PNCs. In comparison, PNC solid passivated with long ligands exhibits a slower PL decay with an elongated decay lifetime, indicating the occurrence of exciton diffusion. Further, we prepared two thick PNC solids and conducted low temperature PL measurements in a transmission mode to study the emission mechanism. Both PNC solids exhibits slightly asymmetric PL spectra that can be fitted with two peaks, and a strikingly different PL evolution was observed for two solids with decreasing temperature: long ligand passivated PNC solid shows an increase of lower energy emission and decrease of higher energy emission due to enhanced exciton diffusion; in comparison, short ligand passivated PNC solid exhibits a simultaneous increase of two emission peaks that correspond to defect-related subbandgap emission and intrinsic emission intensity, which can be attributed to enhanced carrier trapping at defect states and lower probability of exciton dissociation. Our work provides important insights for understanding the exciton property in this class of materials, paving the way for further development of PNC solid-based optoelectronic devices.  
 CRediT authorship contribution statement 
 Declaration of competing interest The authors declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing interests: Zhiya Dang reports financial support and administrative support were provided by Sun Yat-Sen University. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. shows the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the NC thin film samples before and after the treatment, with the main diffraction peaks labelled. Both samples possess crystal structure corresponding well with the orthorhombic CsPbBr 3 (ICSD 97851, lattice constants a = 8.207 Å, b = 8.255 Å, c = 11.759 Å). Fig. 1 (b, c) shows the TEM images in which both PNCs exhibit cuboid-like shapes. Long ligand passivated PNCs possess an edge size of 11.2 ± 6.8 nm close to Gaussian distribution. In comparison, short ligand passivated PNCs have larger sizes of 18~22 nm. Since the small inter-edge distance of short ligand PNCs induces significant aggregation, it is difficult to analyze the exact NC size distribution. 
 Fig. 3b summarizesFig. 1 . 1 Fig. 3b summarizes the proportion of three components, showing that: 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. CsPbBr 3 NC with short and long ligand passivation: (a) UV-vis absorption spectra, inset is the Tauc plot; (b) PLQY evolution after PNC dispersion is dropcasted onto the glass substrate. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. TRPL analysis of 1.8 μm thick film made of short and long ligand passivated CsPbBr 3 NCs. (a) TRPL curves and their tri-exponential fittings (solid lines: long ligand, dash lines for short ligand); (b) respective contributions of non-radiative recombination (red), immediate radiative recombination (green-yellow) and delayed radiative recombination (blue) processes in different detection bands. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. PL spectra of (a) short and (b) long ligand passivated PNC solids with 1.8 μm thickness at varying temperatures; Multipeak fitting of PL spectra at various temperatures for (c) long and (d) short ligand passivated PNC solids. 
 Yuqing Luo : Luo Investigation, Data curation. Xiaobin Rao: Formal analysis. Zihao Li: Methodology. Tongtong Lu: Validation. Zelong Chen: Investigation. Zhiya Dang: Writingoriginal draft. Pingqi Gao: Resources. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. Variation of (a) peak position and (b) peak intensity versus temperature for short and long ligand passivated PNC solids; (c, d) schematics showing the emission mechanism of short and long ligand passivated PNC solids.
