Paper #: 16152_1

Residual lead iodide (PbI2) is deemed to a double-edged sword in perovskite film as small amounts of PbI2 are beneficial to the photovoltaic performance, but excessive will cause degradation of photovoltaic performance and stability. Herein, an in-situ repair strategy has been developed by introducing amine-releasable mediator (methylammonium pyridine-2-carboxylic, MAPyA) to eliminate over-residual PbI2 and regulate the crystal quality of perovskite film. Notably, MAPyA can be partially decomposed into methylamine (MA) gas and pyridine-2carboxylic (PyA) during high temperature annealing. The released MA can locally form liquid intermediate phase, facilitating the reconstruction of perovskite microcrystals and residual PbI2. Moreover, the leftover PyA is confirmed to effectively passivate the uncoordinated lead ions in final perovskite film. Based upon this, superior perovskite film with optimized crystal structure and holistic negligible PbI2 is acquired. The assembled device realizes outstanding efficiency of 24.06%, and exhibits a remarkable operational stability that maintaining 87% of its origin efficiency after continuous illumination for 1480 h. And the unencapsulated MAPyA-treated devices present significant uplift in humidity stability (maintaining ~ 93% of the initial efficiency over 1500 h, 50-60% relative humidity). Furthermore, the further optimization of this strategy with nanoimprint technology proves its superiority in the amplificative preparation for perovskite films.
Experimental Procedures Materials and Sample Preparation: Unless specified, all chemicals are employed as received without further modifications after purchase. Tin (IV) oxide (SnO2, 15% in H2O colloidal dispersion liquid), isopropanol (99.7% purity), cesium iodide (CsI, 99.999%) and lead iodide (PbI2, 99.999%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar. N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.8%), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, anhydrous, ≥99.9%), chlorobenzene (CB, 99.8%), acetonitrile (99.8%), 4-tert-butyl pyridine (tBP), bis(trifluoromethane)sulfonimide lithium salt (Li-TSFI, 99.95%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Formamidinium iodide (FAI, 99.8%), methylamine hydrochloride (MACl, 99.5%) and Poly [bis (4-phenyl) (2,4,6-triMethylphenyl)aMine] (PTAA, 15,000~20,000) were purchased from Xi'an Yuri Solar Co., Ltd. 2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis (N, N-di-p-methoxyphenylamine)-9,9-spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD, 99.5%) was purchased from Luminescence Technology Corp. Preparation of Perovskite Solar Cell: PbI2 (691.5 mg, 1.5 mmol/mL) and CsI (19.8 mg, 0.08 mmol/mL) was dissolved in DMF/DMSO (v/v, 95:5) mixed solvent and stirred at 60 °C for 12 h to acquire the PbI2 precursor solution. In parallel, the PyA-PbI2 and MAPyA-PbI2 precursor solutions were prepared by dissolving the same PbI2 components with adding 6 mg PyA or MAPyA. FAI, MACl were mixed and dissolved in isopropanol (IPA) with a concentration of 90, and 9 mg/mL, respectively, to prepare organic amine salts solution. The spiro-OMeTAD solution was prepared with concentration of 72.3 mg/mL in CB, in which 28.8 μL of 4-tert-butylpyridine and 17.5 μL of lithium (trifluoromethyl sulfonyl)-imide (520 mg/mL in acetonitrile) were added as additives. It should be noted that both the PbI2 and organic amine salt solutions need to be fresh. For device fabrication, first, the indium tin oxide (ITO) glasses were cleaned by sequentially washing with detergent, deionized (DI) water, acetone and isopropanol for 20 min. The cleaned glasses/ITO was dried with a nitrogen (N2) stream followed by air plasma treatment for 3 min before use. The uniform and dense SnO2 layer was deposited onto an ITO substrate by spin-coating SnO2 nanoparticle solution (SnO2 colloidal solution/DI water, a ratio of 1:3) at 3000 rpm for 30 s and annealed in ambient air at 150 °C for 30 min. Then, these substrates were treated in a plasma cleaning machine for 3 min. After that, 50 μL of the PbI2, PyA-PbI2 or MAPyA-PbI2 precursor solution was spin-coated onto SnO2 at 1500 r.p.m. for 30 s, then annealed at 70 °C for 1 min and cooled to room temperature. Subsequently, 60 μL of the (FAI/MACl) organic amine salt solution was spin-coated on the top of the PbI2 layer at 2000 rpm for 30 s, followed by thermal annealing at 150 °C for 15 min. After the films were cooled down to room temperature, spiro-OMeTAD solution was spin-coated on perovskite films at 4500 rpm for 30 s. Finally, a 100 nm Ag anode was deposited by thermal evaporation (rate of 1.0 Å/s) using a metal shadow mask. The device area was 0.04 cm 2 . 
 Synthesis of MAPyA: MAPyA was synthesized by reacting pyridine-2-carboxylic (PyA, ≥99%, Alfa Aesar) with excessive methylamine methanol solution (around 37%wt) in an ice bath for 3 h. Then, the liquid was transferred to a rotary evaporator to remove solvent at 50 °C. After that, the powders were recrystallized at absolute ethanol twice and dried in a vacuum drying oven at 60 °C for 12 h to obtain pure MAPyA. Peeling-off Process: Firstly, the PTAA (30 mg/mL, in CB) solution was spin-coated onto the pre-cleaned ITO substrates at 3500 rpm for 20 s and annealed at 150 °C for 15 min in a N2-filled glove box. After cooling for 10 min, 50 µL of DMF was spin-coated on top of the PTAA-coated substrates to improve the surface wettability of the PTAA films. Note that the PTAA in the peeling -off process serves as a sacrificial layer. Subsequently, the perovskite films were deposited onto the PTAA-coated substrates, and then the samples were covered with the Ag electrode through thermal evaporation in a separate vacuum chamber (thickness of 100 nm, rate of 1.0 Å/s). The resulting samples with the multilayer structure were immersed in CB solvent for 40 min at room temperature. After the PTAA layer was dissolved by the CB solvent, the integrated perovskite/metal film naturally detached from the substrate and floated in CB during the immersion process. Finally, the peeling-off perovskite film which attached to a metal layer was transferred on arbitrary support, and its bottom side was exposed. To obtain a clean bottom side, the peeling-off perovskite film was rinsed more than twice by CB to remove the residual PTAA. Device Characterization: Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra was recorded on a Shimadzu IRPrestige-21 spectrometer. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were conducted on SU8020 scanning electron microscope and operated at an acceleration voltage of 8 kV. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) images were measured by Multi Mode 8-HR (Bruker) atomic force microscope. A Rigaku D/Max-B X-ray diffractometer with Bragg-Brentano para focusing geometry was employed to test X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns. The ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) spectra were conducted by using a SHIMADZU, UV-2600 spectrophotometer. The steady-state photoluminescence (PL) spectra and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra were recorded by Edinburgh instrument FLS920 spectrometer (Edinburgh Instruments Ltd.). The current density-voltage (J-V) curves of PVSCs were measured with a Keithley model 2400 source meter (Abet Solar Simulator Sun2000), equipped with a light source (100 mW cm -2 ) under AM 1.5 G filter. The forward scan range is from 0 V to 1.2 V and the reverse scan range is from 1.2 V to 0 V, with 20 mV for each step. The scan rate is 200 mV s -1 and the delay time is 30 ms. The external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra were characterized on the QE-R systems (Enli Tech.). Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of the devices were performed in a frequency range from 1 MHz to 10 mHz using Zahner electrochemical workstation at an applied bias equivalent to the open-circuit voltage of the cell. DFT Calculations: Theoretical calculations were based on the FAPbI3 structure, the control-FAPbI3 structure containing I -and FA + vacancy defects, and the MAPyA-FAPbI3 structure in which FA + vacancies are filled by MA + . The activation energy of migration and the density of states at the surface were calculated using DFT. The final results obtained reflect the I -migration activation energy (Ea) of the perovskite surface. It should be noted that the vacuum state of the perovskite surface makes ion migration more susceptible. We have employed the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) to perform all density functional theory (DFT) calculations within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) using the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) unctional. We have chosen the projected augmented wave (PAW) potentials to describe the ionic cores and take valence electrons into account using a plane wave basis set with a kinetic energy cutoff of 450 eV. Geometry optimizations were performed with the force convergency smaller than 0.05 eV/Å and the energy convergence of 1 × 10 -5 eV. Monkhorst-Pack k-points of 2×2×1 was applied for all the calculations. Atoms at bottom are fixed in all the calculation. A climbing image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method was used to locate the transition states with the same convergence standard. After geometry optimization, the charge density mappings, charge-density difference and the projected density of state (PDOS) plots were calculated with the Monkhorst-Pack mesh of 4 × 4 × 1.                   
 Results and Discussion Figure Figure S1. a) The synthetic route of compound MAPyA. b, c) 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR of MAPyA dissolved in CDCl3. 
 Figure S2 . S2 Figure S2. XRD patterns of PbI2 and PbI2-MAPyA films. 
 Figure S3 . S3 Figure S3. Dynamics of liquid spreading on various PbI2 substrates. Selected images showing the spreading of isopropanol droplet at the early stages after contacting with a PbI2 and a PbI2-MAPyA surface. 
 Figure S4 . S4 Figure S4. Grain size distributions of control and MAPyA-treated perovskite films. 
 Figure S5 . S5 Figure S5. AFM images of a) PbI2 and PbI2-MAPyA films, and b) control and MAPyA-treated perovskite films. 
 Figure Figure S6. a) UPS of the control and MAPyA-treated perovskite films. b, c) Onset and cutoff range from the UPS results. The secondary electron cutoff feature is shifted by the incident photon energy (21.22 eV) to show the position of the vacuum level relative to the Fermi level (located at 0 eV), which corresponds to the work function (WF). d) Schematic energy level diagram of the correlated components of perovskite solar cells. 
 Figure Figure S8. a) FTIR of PyA, MAPyA and PbI2-MAPyA. b, c) XPS spectra of Pb 4f and I 3d of control, MAPyA-treated perovskite films, respectively. 
 Figure Figure S9. a-c) Depth-dependent GIXRD patterns as a function of incident angle for control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated perovskite films. d) Linear fit of 2θ-sin2ψ for the corresponding perovskite films. 
 Figure Figure S10. a) Schematic and b) photograph of peeling off the perovskite film from the ITO glass substrate. 
 Figure Figure S11. a) DFT calculation model of Control and MAPyA perovskite. b) The partial charge density of control (FAPbI3 with surface defect VI and MAPyA (MAPyA passivated FAPbI3 surface defects based on density functional theory). (Pb: blue, I: orange, C: brown, N: light gray, O: red, H: white) 
 Figure Figure S13. a) In-situ optical micrographs of the crystallization process for control and MAPyA-treated perovskite films. b) Optical micrographs of the post-MA treated process and the corresponding SEM image of the final film. 
 Figure S14 . S14 Figure S14. The J-V curves of the perovskite devices based on different concentration of MAPyA. 
 Figure Figure S15. a-c) The current J-V curves of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated devices measured in both reverse and forward scan directions. 
 Figure Figure S16. a) Space charge-limited current (SCLC) measurements of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated devices with structure of ITO/PEDOT: PSS/perovskite/spiro-OMeTAD/Ag. b) SCLC measurements of electron-only devices (SnO2/perovskite/PCBM/Ag) based on control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated perovskite films c) Dependence of Jsc at various illumination intensities. d) The dark current density-voltage (J-V) measurements of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated devices. e-f) TPC, TPV decay curves for control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated devices. 
 Figure Figure S17. a) PL mapping images of HTLs films based on perovskite for the control, PyA and MAPyA films. b) Intensity histogram of corresponding films. 
 Figure 18 . 18 Figure 18. a-b) EL spectra of the control, PyA-treated devices while operating as LEDs. Inset: EL image of the corresponding device. 
 Figure S19 .Figure S20 . S19S20 Figure S19. The Humidity stability of control, PyA-and MAPyA-device at room temperature in air (50-60% relative humidity). 
 Figure S21 .Figure S22 . S21S22 Figure S21. The storage stability of control, PyA-and MAPyA-device at room temperature in N2 glove box. 
 
 
 
			 Figure S7. In-situ UV-vis absorption spectra of PbI2 and PbI2-MAPyA films. 
			 Figure S23. The photograph of control and PyA perovskite films on 5 × 5 cm 2 substrates via blade-coating.
Paper #: 16152_2
Title: Amine-releasable Mediator In situ Repair Perovskites for Efficient and Stable Perovskite Solar Cells
Residual lead iodide (PbI 2 ) is deemed to a double-edged sword in perovskite film as small amounts of PbI 2 are beneficial to the photovoltaic performance, but excessive will cause degradation of photovoltaic performance and stability. Herein, an in situ repair strategy has been developed by introducing aminereleasable mediator (methylammonium pyridine-2-carboxylic, MAPyA) to eliminate over-residual PbI 2 and regulate the crystal quality of perovskite film. Notably, MAPyA can be partially decomposed into methylamine (MA) gas and pyridine-2-carboxylic (PyA) during high temperature annealing. The released MA can locally form liquid intermediate phase, facilitating the reconstruction of perovskite microcrystals and residual PbI 2 . Moreover, the leftover PyA is confirmed to effectively passivate the uncoordinated lead ions in final perovskite film. Based upon this, superior perovskite film with optimized crystal structure and holistic negligible PbI 2 is acquired. The assembled device realizes outstanding efficiency of 24.06 %, and exhibits a remarkable operational stability that maintaining 87 % of its origin efficiency after continuous illumination for 1480 h. And the unencapsulated MAPyA-treated devices present significant uplift in humidity stability (maintaining ~93 % of the initial efficiency over 1500 h, 50-60 % relative humidity). Furthermore, the further optimization of this strategy with nanoimprint technology proves its superiority in the amplificative preparation for perovskite films.
Introduction Organic-inorganic hybrid perovskites have set off a research boom owing to their unique advantages in photovoltaic application.  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5]  At present, the highest certified power conversion efficiency (PCE) of single-junction perovskite solar cells (PVSCs) has reached 26.1 %,  [6]  which catches up with the monocrystalline silicon-based solar cells. Several efforts have been mainly devoted to refresh record efficiency, improve operational stability and explore large-area manufacturing processes for boosting the commercial development of PVSCs.  [7] [8] [9]  Managing excess unstable PbI 2 in perovskite films, especially in sequential deposition process, is essential for achieving high efficiency and stability.  [10] [11] [12]  It is reported that moderate residual PbI 2 of perovskite at the grain boundaries can passivate defects and reduce hysteresis.  [13]  However, In a typical sequential deposition, the compact PbI 2 film to some extent impedes the intercalation reaction between PbI 2 and organic cations, which leads to a large amount of residual PbI 2 at the bottom of the perovskite film. It is worth noting that a large amount of residual PbI 2 will seriously affect the energy level alignment and carriers injection due to its naturally p-type characteristics of PbI 2 .  [14]  More importantly, the unreacted and light-sensitive PbI 2 is inclined to decompose into metallic lead (Pb 0 ) and I 2 when continuously exposure to light or X-ray irradiation, which accelerates the nonradiative recombination and structural damage in perovskite film, thus bring about irreversible performance deterioration of PVSCs.  [15]  Overall, the photoinstability of PbI 2 containing perovskite negates the beneficial effects on the PCE enhancement. Several attempts have been proposed to effectively promote the PbI 2 completely converted to perovskite or eliminate the adverse effects of residual PbI 2 . For instance, volatile additives or nanosheet two-dimensional materials have been incorporated to modulate porous morphology of PbI 2 films, facilitating the conversion of reactive components (PbI 2 and cationic salts) to perovskites.  [16] [17] [18] [19] [20]  Besides, the exploration of the transform mechanism, component and process engineering are also widely investigated to understand and attenuate the symptom of PbI 2 surplus.  [21]  Regarding to the unreacted PbI 2 , researchers have adopted certain ligands to manage the excess PbI 2 by adjusting its spatial distribution or transforming PbI 2 to harmless intermediate substance.  [22]  In particular, You et al. have converted PbI 2 into an inactive secondary-phase compound, thus markedly improving the optoelectronic property and stability of PVSCs.  [23] [24]  Another strategy to address unfavorable PbI 2 is additional post-processing of the formed perovskite films. Rationally selected mediators, such as oleylammonium chloride, buckybowls and ((C 2 H 5 O) 3 Si(CH 2 ) 3 NH 3 ) 2 SO 4 ,  [25] [26] [27]  etc., are employed to interact with superficial PbI 2 , reconstructing the surface of perovskite films. Zhu's group proposes a chemical polishing strategy to remove the superficial residual PbI 2 , which also provides innovative ideas for obtaining high quality perovskite films with less PbI 2 .  [28]  Although the above strategies promote the reaction of organic salts with PbI 2 and attenuate the hazard of excess PbI 2 , the effect is usually limited or singular, while the postprocessing methods are only effective on surface and may exert negative impact on perovskite crystals. Therefore, the exploration of reliable method to modulate the formation of perovskite comprehensively redress the unwanted residual PbI 2 is urgent desired. Inspired by the fact that methylamine (MA) gas posttreatment yields high quality perovskite films,  [29] [30] [31]  in this work, we have introduced an amine-releasable mediator (methylammonium pyridine-2-carboxylic, MAPyA) into PbI 2 precursor solution to induce defect-healing of perovskite and in situ remove residual PbI 2 . The MAPyA is demonstrated to regulate the morphology and crystallization of PbI 2 film, which facilitates the transformation of residual PbI 2 to perovskite film. It is noteworthy that MAPyA can be partially decomposed into MA gas, which locally forms a liquid intermediate phase to dissolve and reconstruct perovskite crystals. The undecomposed MAPyA can complement MA + to in situ convert the residual PbI 2 . The possible chemical processes are listed in Figure  1a . Moreover, the carboxyl group of another decomposition product pyridine-2-carboxylic (PyA), can interact strongly with uncoordinated Pb 2 + to passivate defects and stabilize lattices of perovskite films. Based on that, the PCE of the MAPyAoptimized PVSCs dramatically increases from 21.26 % to 24.06 %. The corresponding unencapsulated device retains 87 % of the initial PCE after sunlight soaking for 1480 h. Meanwhile, the unencapsulated MAPyA-treated devices present significant uplift in humidity stability (maintaining ~93 % of its initial efficiency over 1500 h, 50-60 % relative humidity). Moreover, homogeneous large-area perovskite film and an impressive PCE (21.4 %) are obtained by combining in situ repair strategy and nanoimprint technology. 
 Results and Discussion The feasible synthetic route of MAPyA, the corresponding 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and  13  C NMR spectra in Figure  S1  confirm MAPyA has been successfully synthesized. The gas chromatography (GC, Figure  1b ) exhibits that the retention times of pure MAPyA, PyA and MA are 17.3 min, 18.0 min and 8.1 min. Nevertheless, two retention times (17.3 min and 18.0 min, attributed to MA-PyA and PyA, respectively) of MAPyA are observed after heating at 100 °C, evidencing the decomposition of MAPyA at high temperature. Notably, the absence of MA retention time is might be the low boiling point of MA makes it difficult to detect. Figure  1c  exhibits the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the PbI 2 -MAPyA film annealing at 70 °C and 100 °C, separately. When temperature elevate from 70 °C to 100 °C, the peak of δ-CsPbI 3 (9.7°) disappears and MAPbI 3 (14.1°) appears (in line with the phenomenon that previous reported),  [32] [33]  which may be the released MA by temperature-inducing can chemically react with the δ-CsPbI 3 to gift a crystal reconstruction environment. Interestingly, with the aid of optical microscopy, we also observe a heterogeneous region in the 100 °C treated PbI 2 -MAPyA film (Figure  1d ), which is differ to the normally PbI 2 phase and speculated to perovskites. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is further performed to understand the variation for PbI 2 crystal structure for determining heterogeneous substance. As shown in Figure  1e , the inter-planar spacing of PbI 2 -MAPyA film is 3.9 Å and well-matched with the empirical value of PbI 2 film, while the 100 °C treated PbI 2 -MAPyA film presents an inter-planar spacing of 3.3 Å that correlated to MAPbI 3 perovskite,  [34]  confirming the above conjecture. Additionally, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images for the PbI 2 -MAPyA film displays more porous structure compared to the pristine PbI 2 , which will effectively promote the diffusion of organic amine salts in PbI 2 film (Figure  1f ). The alteration of the (001) peak intensity of PbI 2 -MAPyA film in XRD patterns (Figure  S2 ) is probably on account of the interaction between PbI 2 and MAPyA. In Figure  1g , the nitrogen adsorption-desorption examination is used to characterize the porosity for PbI 2 film. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area for PbI 2 -MAPyA film is 3.38 m 2 /g, which is much higher than PbI 2 film (1.82 m 2 /g). Meanwhile, the pore-size distribution shows that PbI 2 -MAPyA film has larger pore size (3.22 nm) in comparison with the pristine PbI 2 film (2.78 nm), which further corroborates the more porous structure of PbI 2 . We further tested the dynamic contact angle of isopropanol droplets on the surface of PbI 2 . The spreading rate of isopropanol at the interface of PbI 2 film can be roughly evaluated by the Tanner power law: θ/(t 0 + t) À n .  [35]  The higher power coefficient (n) of PbI 2 -MAPyA film demonstrates that the larger specific surface area facilitates the penetration of cations (Figure  1h  and Figure  S3 ). The SEM characterizations are carried out to investigate the effect of MAPyA for the perovskite morphology (Figure  2a ). Compared to the control film, the MAPyA-treated perovskite film showcases the absence of pinholes and larger grains with the average grain size increased from 0.82 to 1.13 μm (Figure  S4 ). The atomic force microscopy (AFM) images further demonstrate the rough morphology of PbI 2 -MAPyA film is favorable to obtain high-quality perovskite film (Figure  S5 ). Moreover, the confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscopy (CLSM), photoluminescence (PL) and ultraviolet-visible (UV/Vis) absorbance spectroscopy are utilized to assess the optical properties of perovskite films. Consistent with the above results, the MAPyA-treated perovskite film exhibits larger grain size, stronger PL and UV/Vis absorption intensity compared with control sample (Figure  2b, c ). The time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra in Figure  2d  show that the MAPyA-treated perovskite film indicates significantly enhanced carrier lifetime (1826 ns) compared with the control film (380 ns), demonstrating lower defect densities and suppressed nonradiative recombination. The ultraviolet photoelectron spectrometry (UPS) results reflect the changes in energy band structure (Figure  S6 ), where the valance band maximum of the MAPyA perovskite film increases from À 5.84 to À 5.61 eV, which is closer to the highest occupied molecular orbital of the 2,2',7,7'-tetrakis-(N, N-di-4-methoxyphenylamino)-9,9'-spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD) and facilitates the charge-carrier collection. The grazing incidence wide angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) tests are examined to further scrutinize the crystallinity and orientation of the corresponding perovskite films. As displayed in Figure  2e , the diffraction rings at the scattering vector q = 0.8 Å À 1 , q = 0.9 Å À 1 and q = 1.0 Å À 1 are assigned to δ-FAPbI 3 (100), PbI 2 (001) plane and α-FAPbI 3 (100) plane, respectively. Obviously, the MAPyA film shows a vertical crystal orientation and almost complete elimination of δ-FAPbI 3 and PbI 2 , which proves that the crystal structure of the optimized perovskite film is more stable and the residual PbI 2 is effectively removed. The in situ XRD results in  
 Angewandte Chemie 
 Forschungsartikel Figure  2f  display the similar adjustment effect of MAPyA on perovskite film crystallization. What's more, the conversion of residual PbI 2 in MAPyA-treated films tended to be complete with annealing time, and the final perovskite film exhibits higher crystallinity. The in situ UV/Vis absorption spectroscopy is utilized to gain insight into the crystallization process of PbI 2 and perovskite films. The PbI 2 -MAPyA film shows a slower crystallization process (Figure  S7 ), extrapolating that there is a strong interaction between PbI 2 and MAPyA. Meanwhile, the MAPyA-treated perovskite film demonstrates a faster crystallization process compared to the control film (Figure  2g ), which can be attributed to the larger specific surface area of PbI 2 -MAPyA film facilitates the reaction of PbI 2 with organic amine salts during the annealing process. The Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements are further applied to confirm the chemical interaction between PbI 2 and MAPyA. As illustrated in Figure  S8a , after incorporated with PbI 2 , the C=O stretching vibration of MAPyA shifts from1670 to 1666 cm À 1 because of the electron delocalization effect from C=O, confirming the strong interaction between C=O and PbI 2 . In addition, the significant deviation of the I 3d and Pb 4 f orbital peaks in XPS spectra (Figure  S8b, c ) also explains the strong interaction of C=O and NÀ H in MAPyA with Pb and I in perovskite, respectively. Thus, the increased average grain size and improved crystallographic orientation can be obtained, which is not isolated from the regulation of MAPyA in the nucleation and crystallization of perovskite. As demonstrated above, the MAPyA is decomposed into MA gas and PyA during the second annealing step. The decomposition product PyA eventually exists in perovskite and also has a certain modulation effect on film quality. In order to isolate the function of in situ repair and passivation of MAPyA, PyA is introduced into the PbI 2 precursor solution as an extra reference group under the same conditions. The grazing incidence X-ray diffraction (GIXRD) measurements are employed to confirm the residual PbI 2 content within the control, PyA-and MAPyAtreated perovskite films from the top surface to the bottom interface by changing the incident angle from 0.1°to 2°.  [36]  As shown in Figure  3a , the PbI 2 signals of the control and PyA-treated perovskite films are gradually enhanced with the increase of the incident angle, while the peak intensity of PbI 2 for MAPyA-treated perovskite film is significantly decreased in the overall vertical direction. Accordingly, the MAPyA-treated film exhibits significantly low integrated area ratio of PbI 2 /perovskite (100) peak (Figure  3b ), in-  
 Angewandte Chemie 
 Forschungsartikel dicates that the amine-releasable mediator MAPyA can more thoroughly eliminate the excess PbI 2 with an in situ process, which also implies the formation of superior stoichiometric perovskite film with almost no stress (Figure  S9 ).  [37] [38]  In addition, the morphologies of the crosssection and the buried interface of the corresponding perovskite films are recorded to intuitively understand the advantages of the in situ repair strategy in eliminating the residual PbI 2 at the bottom. As illustrated in Figure  3c , bright flakes distinguished from the perovskite grains and identified as PbI 2 are found at the bottom of the control and PyA-treated films, signifying that PyA might be limited in promoting the conversion and excess PbI 2 is still left on the bottom interface. In contrast, almost no residual PbI 2 flakes are present at the bottom of MAPyA-treated sample, which is on account of the in situ elimination of residual PbI 2 with the MAPyA-treatment. The schematic diagram of the scathe-less lift-off process for the morphology characterization of perovskite buried interface is showcased in Figure  S10 . The above results strongly evidence that the in situ repair strategy is effective to repair the impure and nonstoichiometric perovskite film. Density functional theory (DFT) calculation is conducted to obtain the density of state information for analyzing the interaction mechanism between MAPyA and perovskites. As shown in Figure  3d , a distinct defect state signal can be observed on the Fermi energy level surface, which can be determined as the PbÀ Pb dimerization defective central and caused by the I À vacancy and FA + vacancy in FAPbI 3 .  [39]  After MAPyA was introduced, the FA + vacancy was repaired by MA + . Further analysis of electrostatic potential and calculations of differential charge density reveal the formation of PbÀ O bonds, which is the reason for alleviation of localized electrons and disappearance of the PbÀ Pb defect state (Figure  S11-12 ). The underlying mechanism of in situ repair might similar to the above validation that the released MA induces recrystallisation, enabling the in situ reaction of residual PbI 2 with FA + and MAPyA-compensated MA + to form perovskite iodine-rich environment (x FA + + (1-x) MA + + I À + PbI 2 ! FA x MA 1-x PbI 3 ), the corresponding schematic is shown in Figure  1a . In order to conclusive proof of the above postulated mechanism, we used real-time PL mapping spectra to trace the crystallization process of perovskite films and performed the selected regions analyzation of PL spectra (Figure  3e, f ).  [40]  In the control film, regions 1, 2 represent the wet film state with an emission wavelength near 760 nm, and the regions 3, 4, 5 represent the gradually emerged perovskite domain at longer emission wavelength. Whereas in the MAPyA-treated film, regions 6, 8 and regions 9, 11 matches well with the wet film state and perovskite domain, respectively, but regions 7, 10 are different from all the a bove states and appear a lower emission wavelength. Considered that the post-MA treatment can realize the same liquefaction-recrystallization effect,  [31]  the process of MA treating control perovskite film are also monitored as a comparison (region 12 equal to region 5). As we expected, the regions 13, 14 which represented the liquefied perovskite are in conformity with the regions 7, 10 with an emission wavelength of 740 nm, demonstrating that MAPyA can released MA gas to trigger the in situ repairment of the defective perovskite film during the annealing process. The similar regional liquefaction reconstruct phenomenon are observed from the in situ optical microscopy results in Figure  S13 . It is noteworthy that the post-MA treatment undergoes a full-liquefying and full-constructing process, thus destroying the overall morphology produces a decreased film quality with a lot of microcrystals,  [41]  which also demonstrates the necessity of in situ MA gas modification. Given these promising properties discussed above, the PVSCs with structure of ITO/SnO 2 /perovskite/spiro-OMe-TAD/Ag is fabricated (Figure  4a ) to investigate the effect of MAPyA treatment on the photovoltaic performance. As shown in Table  1 , based on the optimal addition of 6 mg/ml (Figure  S14 ), the MAPyA-device achieves a champion PCE of 24.06 %, with V oc of 1.21 V, J sc of 25.23 mA/cm 2 , and FF of 78.90 %. But the control device exhibits a PCE of 21.26 %, with a short-circuit-current density (J sc ) of 24.56 mA/cm  2  , an open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 1.11 V, and fill factor (FF) of 77.91 %. While the PCE of PyA processed device is improved to some extent, with a PCE of 22.34 %, J sc of 24.91 mA/cm 2 , V oc of 1.14 V, and FF of 78.43 % (Figure  4b ). A statistical distribution of PCE based on 40 devices (Figure  4c ) show that the MAPyA-optimized devices have the higher averaged values and better reproducibility. The integrated J sc calculated from the external quantum efficiency spectra (EQE) for the control, PyA-and MA-PyA-based devices are 23.97 mA/cm 2 , 24.36 mA/cm 2 and 24.82 mA/cm 2 , respectively (Figure  4d ), which are matched well with the measured value from the J-V curves. The J-V curves under different scan directions for the devices are shown in Figure  S15 , and the hysteresis factors of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated devices are calculated to be 5.2 %, 4.1 % and 2.2 %, respectively. Moreover, the MA-PyA-treated device achieves well-matched steady-state power output with almost no decrease in the 180 s period (Figure  4e ). The defect density and charge mobility are evaluate by a space-charge-limited-current (SCLC) measurement.  [42]  Expectedly, the MAPyA-treated device exhibits the lowest defect state density in both cases of electron (1.77×10 15 cm À 3 ) and hole (6.78×10 15 cm À 3 ), significantly lower than the control and PyA-treated samples (Figure  S16a-b ). Correspondingly, the MAPyA-treated device has the highest charge mobility (Table  S3 ). The PL mapping characterized for the control, PyA and MAPyA perovskite films with hole transport layer also indicate the MAPyA films have greater uniformity and more obvious PL quenching phenomenon (Figure  S17 ). The reduced defect density and improved charge mobility of MAPyA-optimized film further demonstrates the availability of in situ repair strategy. In addition, the Nyquist plots are utilized to inquire the charge transport resistance (R ct ) and the recombination resistance (R rec ). As shown in Figure  4f , the MAPyAoptimized device reveals the reduced R ct and increased R rec , which is ascribed to the matched energy levels and improved quality of perovskite film. Furthermore, the light intensity dependences of V oc and J sc are studied to understand the charge recombination kinetics of PVSCs. In general, the relationship of V oc and illumination intensity can be expressed as V oc = nKT/q(P light ). The slope of MAPyA-based device (1.50 KT/q) is lower compared with the PyA-based (1.69 KT/q) and control (1.93 KT/q) devices (Figure  4g ), indicating the less defect-assisted recombination. The plots of J sc versus illumination intensity in Figure  S16c  declares that the MAPyA-optimized device features an exponential factor α closer to 1 than control and PyA-treated devices, implying the effectively enhanced charge drift. Meanwhile, the dark current result illustrates the lowest leakage current (J 0 ) in MAPyA-device compared with the other samples (Figure  S16d ). The decay kinetics are further probed by  ), which corresponds well to the trend of rising V oc values in J-V results.  [43]  Figure  4i  and Figure  S18a -b display the related electroluminescence (EL) results of these devices under different voltage bias, wherein the MAPyA-treated device showed obvious EL with an emission peak located at 806 nm, and can even emit under lower applied voltage (1.2 V), which means the better performance to operate as a diode. The inset is the EL image of the corresponding device. The optimized film quality and the in situ transformation of residual PbI 2 in perovskite film are expected to greatly improve the stability of PVSCs. It has been reported that the residual PbI 2 in the perovskite film is liable to decomposes to Pb 0 and I 2 under light condition, and these decomposition products will aggravate the degradation of perovskite and seriously affect the photostability of the device. As shown in Figure  5a , destructive decomposition and pinholes is observed in SEM images of the control and PyA films, while the MAPyA film displays only slight surface degradation after light soaking for 500 h. The corresponding XPS results of Pb 4f spectra (Figure  5b, c ) further demonstrate that the residual PbI 2 in both control and PyA films is degraded to produce Pb 0 peaks. However,  
 Angewandte Chemie 
 Forschungsartikel the MAPyA film does not change significantly before and after light aging, which declares the efficient elimination of excess PbI 2 in situ and the improvement of photostability. The photostability, air environment, and thermal stability of the unencapsulated PVSCs are further evaluated by storing the devices under light, in air (50-60 % relative humidity) or at 85 °C in N 2 glovebox. As expected, the normalized PCE of the MAPyA-device is stable at 87 % of its original value after nearly 1480 h of light soaking, but the control and PyA devices decline to 5 % and 30 % of their initial PCE under the same conditions, respectively (Figure  5d ). In thermal stability analysis, the MAPyA-device maintains approximately 90 % of the initial PCE after 1300 h of aging, whereas the control and PyA devices retain only 15 % and 70 %, respectively. Meanwhile, the MAPyA-device impressively maintains 93 % of its initial efficiency after aging in air environment for 1500 h, which is far more stable than the control and PyA devices (Figure  S19 ). The enhanced humidity stability is attributed to the improved hydrophobicity of perovskite films that can be testified by the contact angle results (Figure  S20 ). Furthermore, the MA-PyA-device can maintain 90 % of their initial efficiency after stored in an N 2 glove box for 2400 h (Figure  S21 ). All the stability results echo that MAPyA can eliminate residual lead iodide and passivate defects more efficiently, delivering the corresponding PVSCs higher long-term stability. Considering the I À migration has an important influence on the stability of perovskite film. The activation energy (E a ) of I À migration in perovskite films without and with MAPyA are calculated. The calculations show that the E a for the I À migration is 0.16 eV when the FA + defects in the FAPbI 3 system (Figure  5e , Figure  S22 ). However, when FA + vacancies are filled by MA + that released form MAPyA, the E a for the I À migration was raised to 0.26 eV, which implies the  Angewandte Chemie Forschungsartikel migration of I À is inhibited effectively by MAPyA. More importantly, when the I À migration is complete, the final energy of the MAPyA-perovskite system (À 0.0069 eV) does not change significantly with respect to the initial state (0 eV), which suggests that there is no aberration in the structure of perovskite. The calculation results fully demonstrate that the introduction of MAPyA stabilizes the perovskite structure and improves the E a of ion migration, revealing the most direct reason for the improvement of thermal stability. Encouraged by the excellent performance and stability of MAPyA-device, we additionally evaluated the uniformity and upscaling capability of perovskite film that prepared in combination with our previously reported nanoimprinting strategy.  [44]  Samples with this condition are marked as "imprinted" here. The homogeneity of bladecoated perovskite films with an area of 5×5 cm 2 is subsequently identified by PL mapping measurement. As shown in Figure  5f , the prominent improvements in both PL intensity and homogeneity are observed in MAPyA film compared with control sample. It is surprising that 9 points at different uniformly selected regions in the imprinted sample show nearly identical, and the PL intensity is obviously enhanced in comparison to the control and MAPyA films, suggesting a remarkable uniformity of the optical properties over large scale. The UV/Vis uniformity tests upon a 5×5 cm 2 substrate further prove the above result (Figure  5g , Figure  S23 ). In addition, the imprinted device shows an impressive PCE of 21.37 % with a V oc of 1.19 V (Figure  5h ). The insets display the SEM images of the corresponding imprinted PbI 2 and perovskite films. Therefore, the implemented strategy is favorable to obtain a uniform perovskite film, which lays the groundwork for improving the photovoltaic performance of large-area perovskite module. 
 Conclusion In summary, we have firstly proposed an in situ repair strategy to convert residual PbI 2 into perovskite by introducing amine-releasable mediator MAPyA. The released MA coupled with the compensated MA + can eliminate the excess PbI 2 , and the leftover PyA can passivate the adverse defects significantly, which gifts the optimized perovskite film with negligible residual PbI 2 and reformative stoichiometric ratios. Benefiting from these merits, the MAPyAoptimized device achieves a champion efficiency of 24.06 % with excellent photostability and improved resistance to moisture erosions. The corresponding unencapsulated device retains 87 % of its initial efficiency after 1480 h of light exposure and maintains an initial efficiency of 93 % over 1500 h in air condition of 50-60 % relative humidity. Moreover, homogeneous large-area perovskite film and an impressive PCE (21.37 %) are obtained by combining in situ repair strategy and nanoimprint technology. These results illustrate the importance of eliminating residual PbI 2 for efficient and stable perovskite device, also contribute to an ingenious and effective strategy to push forward the commercial application of PVSCs. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. a) Schematic diagram and the chemical mechanism of amine-releasable mediator decomposition and in situ repair of perovskite. b) GC of pure MA, PyA, MAPyA and the decomposed products of MAPyA at 100 °C. c) XRD patterns, d) optical microscopy images and e) TEM images of PbI 2 -MAPyA films after annealing at 70 °C and 100 °C, respectively. f) Top view SEM images, g) nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms of PbI 2 and PbI 2 -MAPyA films. The inset shows the corresponding pore size distribution. h) Contact angle variation as a function of time for various PbI 2 substrates. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. a) Top view SEM images, b) PL mapping images, c) UV/Vis absorption and PL spectra, and d) TRPL spectra of control and MAPyAtreated perovskite films. e) 2D GIXRD diffraction patterns, f) In situ XRD patterns and g) UV/Vis absorption spectra of control and MAPyA films. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. a) XRD patterns of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated perovskite films at different incident angles. b) The PbI 2 /perovskite ratios of the corresponding perovskite films calculated from the diffraction peaks from XRD results. c) SEM images of the bottom sides and cross-sectional SEM images of control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated perovskite films, respectively. d) Calculated DOSs of Control (FAPbI 3 with I À , FA + vacancy defects, inset 1 and MAPyA (defects repaired by MAPyA inset 2. e) Real-time PL mapping spectra of control, MAPyA-treated and post-MA-treated perovskite films. f) PL spectra of selected regions from (e). 
 Forschungsartikel transient photocurrent (TPC) and transient photovoltage (TPV) measurements. As shown in Figure S16e and Figure S16f, the MAPyA-device exhibits a faster photocurrent decay and a slower photovoltage decay compared with the control and PyA-treated devices, demonstrating the suppressed carrier recombination and better carrier transport in the MAPyA-optimized sample. These results unambiguously confirm that the amine-releasable mediator MAPyA enables in situ repairment of the defective sequential deposited perovskite film. The external quantum efficiencies (EQE-EL, Figure 4h) are 0.96, 2.99 and 3.98 % for the control, PyA-and MAPyA-devices, respectively, in the case of the injection current density equivalent to J sc . The estimated V oc boosts can reach 29.16 mV and 36.75 mV for the PyA-and MAPyA-devices (based on the formula: ~Voc = k B T/qIn (EQE passivation /EQE pristine ) 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) Device architecture of as-fabricated perovskite solar cells. b) J-V curves (reverse scan), c) Histogram of the PCE values among 40 devices, d) EQE spectra and the corresponding integrated J sc values. e) Steady-state PCE and J sc values of the corresponding devices measured at the maximum power point. f) EIS spectra. g) Dependence of V oc at various illumination intensities., h) Electroluminescence (EQE-EL) and i) EL spectra of the MAPyA-treated devices while operating as LED. Inset: EL image of the devices under different voltage bias. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. a) The SEM images and b, c) corresponding XPS spectra of Pb 4 f for control, PyA-and MAPyA-treated perovskite films before and after light aging with 100 mW/cm 2 intensity for 500 h. PCE evolutions of the nonencapsulated PVSCs d) under 100 mW/cm 2 sunlight or at 85 °C in N 2 glove box. e) The E a of I À migration in perovskite films without and with MAPyA. f) PL mapping images of 9 different points of control, MAPyAtreated and imprinted perovskite films. g) UV/Vis absorption at 25 different points for corresponding perovskite films on 5×5 cm 2 substrates via blade-coating, and the inset shows the corresponding photograph of MAPyA perovskite film. h) J-V curves of PVSCs based on MAPyA-treated perovskite film with integration of imprinted technology. 
 Table 1 : 1 Photovoltaic parameters of the control, PyA-and MAPyAdevices. Device V oc J sc FF PCE (V) (mA/cm 2 ) (%) (%) Control 1.11 24.56 77.91 21.26 PyA 1.14 24.91 78.43 22.34 MAPyA 1.21 25.23 78.90 24.06 
			 Angew. Chem. 2024, 136, e202319100 (3 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 15213757, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319100 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Angew. Chem. 2024, 136, e202319100 (4 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 15213757, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319100 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Angew. Chem. 2024, 136, e202319100 (6 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 15213757, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319100 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Angew. Chem. 2024, 136, e202319100 (7 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 15213757, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319100 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Angew. Chem. 2024, 136, e202319100 (8 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 15213757, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319100 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
