Paper #: 14364_1


Table 8 . 8 TRPL fitting parameters of perovskite/PCBM films. Supplementary B1 τ1 (ns) B2 τ2 (ns) τ (ns) Control 0.91 1.26 0.09 8.85 1.94 CPPF 0.95 0.92 0.05 9.34 1.34 TPPF 0.51 0.61 0.49 0.15 0.38
Paper #: 14364_3
Title: Efficient tin-based perovskite solar cells with trans-isomeric fulleropyrrolidine additives
Tin-based perovskite solar cells (TPSCs) are among the best candidates for lead-free photovoltaic technology owing to their low toxicity and high theoretical efficiency. However, the efficiency and stability of TPSCs lag far behind their lead counterparts because of the poor controllability of perovskite film growth and the intrinsically easy oxidation of Sn 2+ . Here we synthesize two pyridyl-substituted fulleropyrrolidines (PPF) with cis (CPPF) and trans (TPPF) configurations and use them as precursor additives. The spatial configurations of the CPPF and TPPF greatly affect their electron density distributions and interactions with perovskite components. Compared with the CPPF, the TPPF has spatially separated pyridine groups that can catch more perovskite colloids through coordination bonds, thus slowing the perovskite crystallization process. The resultant perovskite film displayed better crystal orientation and compactness. The TPPF also remains located at the grain boundaries, improves the interface energy level alignment and suppresses Sn 2+ oxidation. As a result, the TPPF-based TPSCs exhibit a high power conversion efficiency of 15.38% (certified 15.14%) and excellent stability, maintaining 99% and 93% of their initial efficiencies after 3,000 h of storage and 500 h of continuous illumination, respectively. This work highlights the importance of regulating coordination in the precursor solution in preparing high-quality tin-based perovskite films, paving the way to more efficient and stable TPSCs. Lead-based perovskite solar cells (LPSCs) have achieved impressive progress in terms of both efficiency and long-term stability over the past decade 1-4 . However, the toxicity of water-soluble lead ions remains an obstacle in the industrialization process of LPSCs 5 . Although some effective strategies have been reported recently to avoid potential lead leakage of LPSCs, solving this concern is still challenging  6, 7  . The search for non-toxic and efficient lead-free perovskite materials has therefore received much attention recently 8-10 . Among these candidates, tin-based perovskite was considered one of the most promising lead-free photovoltaic materials due to its low toxicity, suitable optical band gap and high charge-carrier mobility  [11] [12] [13]  . Since the Snaith group  14  and Kanatzidis group 15 independently reported tin-based perovskite solar cells (TPSCs) with power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) exceeding 5% in 2014, the performance of TPSCs has steadily improved to exceed 14% in the past few years  13, [16] [17] [18] [19] [20]  . Despite exciting progress in this area, the performance of TPSCs still lags far behind their Shockley-Queisser theoretical limit efficiency. Previous studies have shown that the bottleneck in the performance of TPSCs can largely be attributed to the energy level mismatch at the electron transport layer (ETL)/perovskite interface, the low quality of perovskite films resulting from their rapid crystallization process and the susceptibility of Sn 2+ to oxygen  [21] [22] [23]  . Many strategies have been developed
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-024-01381-7   
 Results The TPPF (Fig.  1a ) was synthesized by a one-pot method using C 60 , 2-pyridyl aldehyde and 2-pyridyl methylamine as raw materials, and the CPPF was also obtained for comparison (Supplementary Fig.  1 ). The molecular structures of these functional fullerene derivatives were confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR and  13  C NMR) and mass spectrometry (Supplementary Figs.  2 3 4 5 6 7 ). The TPPF and CPPF were then added to the perovskite precursor solution to prepare corresponding perovskite films. TPSCs with a configuration of indium tin oxide (ITO)/poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):poly(styrene sulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS)/perovskite/(6,6)-phenyl-C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM)/bathocuproine (BCP)/Ag were fabricated to study the influence of the spatial isomeric additives on the device performance (Fig.  1a ). The optimal concentrations for the TPPF and CPPF were systematically evaluated and determined to be 0.25 mg ml -1 (Supplementary Figs.  8  and 9  and Supplementary Tables  1  and 2 ). The optimized TPPF-based device achieved an impressive PCE of 15.38% with an open-circuit voltage (V OC ) of 0.856 V, a short-circuit current density (J SC ) of 24.81 mA cm -2 and a fill factor of 72.37% (Fig.  1b ). We also obtained a certified PCE of 15.14% from the accredited independent PV calibration laboratory (TÜV NORD Co., Ltd) (Supplementary Fig.  10 ). After a careful literature search and comparison, we found that this is among the highest reported efficiencies for TPSCs (Fig.  1c  and Supplementary Table  3 ). The CPPF-based device showed a PCE of 14.29% with a V OC of 0.825 V, a J SC of 24.13 mA cm -2 and a fill factor of 71.73%. to address these issues, primarily through the introduction of ammonium salt additives to the precursor. These ammonium salts would interact with perovskite components, regulate crystallization and improve device performance  8, 13, [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30]  . However, most of the ammonium salts are insulating and may obstruct charge transport in the device. Therefore, designing and synthesizing new semiconductor additives that can interact with perovskite components to regulate the quality and energy level structure of perovskite films is expected to further improve device performance. Here we synthesized two pyridyl-substituted fulleropyrrolidines (PPF), with cis (CPPF) and trans (TPPF) configurations, and employed them as additives for modulating the tin-based perovskite precursor solution and the crystallization process. Compared with the CPPF, the larger spatial distance between the two pyridine functional groups of the TPPF can effectively increase its probability of interacting with different perovskite colloids to reduce the number of nucleations during the perovskite film preparation process. The TPPF effectively decreased the crystallization rate and improved the perovskite film quality. Furthermore, the introduction of the TPPF enabled better energy level alignment at the interface of perovskite/ETL owing to the elevated Fermi level of the perovskite film. As a result, the TPSCs achieved a PCE of 15.38% (certified 15.14%). In addition, owing to the improved perovskite film quality and increased superoxide resistance, the unencapsulated TPPF-based devices maintained approximately 99% and 93% of their initial PCE after 3,000 h of storage and 500 h of continuous illumination, respectively.  In contrast, the control device displayed a much lower PCE of 12.37% with a V OC of 0.723 V, a J SC of 23.93 mA cm -2 and a fill factor of 71.45% (Supplementary Table  4 ). The J SC values from the J-V curves were consistent with the integrated current density from external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra from the TPPF-based (24.55 mA cm -2 ), CPPF-based (24.04 mA cm -2 ) and control (23.60 mA cm -2 ) devices (Fig.  1d ). Meanwhile, the results of the steady-state output at the maximum power point were consistent with the values from the corresponding J-V curves (Supplementary Fig.  11 ). The TPPF-based device exhibited a smaller hysteresis effect than the control and CPPF-based devices (Supplementary Fig.  12  and Supplementary Table  5 ). We also provide statistical charts of the key parameters of devices from different batches (Fig.  1e ). It was found that the growth in efficiency mainly came from the increased V OC and J SC , especially for the TPPF-based device. This result can be attributed to the better defect passivation effect of TPPF, which reduces carrier recombination. The addition of TPPF may also improve the energy level matching at the interface and increase the photovoltaic performance of the device. To further elucidate the mechanism behind the enhanced device performance, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was adopted to study the interaction between SnI 2 and fulleropyrrolidines. The 3d 5/2 of Sn 2+ shifted from 486.23 eV to 485.73 eV with the introduction of the TPPF. Similarly, the CPPF resulted in a shift to 485.76 eV for Sn 2+ (Fig.  2a ). The introduction of TPPF and CPPF efficiently suppressed the oxidation of Sn 2+ . The N 1s peak of the TPPF and CPPF shifted significantly towards higher binding energies when added to SnI 2 (Supplementary Fig.  13 ), which confirmed that there was a strong interaction between the fulleropyrrolidines and Sn 2+ . This result is also consistent with the Fourier transform infrared spectrometer and NMR characterization results (Supplementary Figs.  14  and 15 ). Density functional theory (DFT) was applied to simulate the interaction between the fulleropyrrolidines and the perovskite components and clearly showed that the nitrogen of the two pyridine groups on the CPPF tended to coordinate with the same colloids owing to the smaller spatial distance between them (Fig.  2b ). In contrast, the larger spatial distance between the two pyridine groups on the TPPF prevented their corresponding N from coordinating with the same Sn 2+ (Fig.  2c ), which meant that TPPF molecules tend to coordinate with two different colloids in the precursor perovskite solution. The different chemical interactions between TPPF and CPPF and the perovskite components may affect the colloid size in the perovskite precursor solution. Considering the spatial position of two pyridines, the two nitrogen atoms in pyridine on the TPPF should have coordinated with two different tin colloid clusters, whereas two N atoms in pyridine on the CPPF should have coordinated with the same tin colloid cluster, which is consistent with the NMR spectra and theoretical calculations. We found that the size of the colloids in the control perovskite precursor solution was about 400 nm (Fig.  2d ). In comparison, the colloid sizes of CPPF-and TPPF-based solutions changed to 480 nm and 660 nm, respectively. A proposed schematic illustration of colloid formation is provided in Fig.  2e . The enlarged colloids might effectively reduce the number of perovskite nucleations during the film formation process, thus regulating the quality of the perovskite films  31  . We conducted in situ steady-state photoluminescence measurements to track the changes in peak positions during the annealing process  32  . The initial photoluminescence peaks (without annealing) for the control, CPPF-and TPPF-based perovskite films were 848 nm, 837 nm and 835 nm, respectively (Fig.  2f ), implying the beginning of perovskite crystallization  33  . Keeping the heat temperature at 70 °C, the photoluminescence peaks then shifted from the initial value to the final position (around 910 nm) in 150 s, 200 s and 300 s for the control, CPPF-and TPPF-based samples, respectively (Fig.  2g ). The longer crystallization time of the TPPF-based sample indicated a decreased crystallization rate, which is beneficial for preparing high-quality films. This result can be attributed to the multi-site coordination effect between TPPF and the perovskite colloids in the perovskite precursor. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) images in Fig.  3a  of the control perovskite film show numerous pinholes and voids. With the introduction of CPPF and TPPF, the quality of the perovskite films was significantly improved. The TPPF, which had more interaction sites with perovskite colloids, was beneficial in preparing more compact perovskite films than were obtained with the CPPF. The improved perovskite film quality was also confirmed by the grazing incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering results (Supplementary Fig.  16 ). It was obvious that TPPF-based perovskite film showed the highest diffraction intensity and the smallest full-width at half-maximum at the 90° azimuth. This result indicated that adding TPPF into the perovskite precursor solution was beneficial for promoting grain growth in the vertical substrate direction  19, 34  . The carrier dynamics of resultant perovskite films were studied using photoluminescence and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements. The perovskite films with CPPF and TPPF additives displayed distinctly enhanced photoluminescence intensities compared with the control sample (Supplementary Fig.  17 ). The TPPF additive increased the carrier lifetime of the perovskite films from 2.71 ns to 16.17 ns, which is much higher than those of the CPPF-based perovskite films (8.78 ns) (Fig.  3b  and Supplementary Table  6 ). The increased carrier lifetime indicated that the slowly crystallized TPPF-based perovskite film had a lower defect density. To quantify the trap density of states (N trap ), we prepared an electron-only device of ITO/SnO 2 /perovskite/PCBM/BCP/Ag. The V TFL of control, CPPF-and TPPF-based devices were determined to be 0.122 V, 0.084 V and 0.061 V, respectively (Fig.  3c ). The N trap of the different perovskite films can be calculated by using the following formula  35, 36  : N trap = 2ε r ε 0 V TFL / (qL 2 ) where ε r , ε 0 , q and L are relative dielectric constant, vacuum permittivity, elementary charge and thickness of perovskite film, respectively. The N trap of TPPF-and CPPF-based perovskite films decreased from 1.18 × 10 16 cm -3 (the control sample) to 5.89 × 10 15 cm -3 and 8.13 × 10 15 cm -3 , respectively. The DFT calculation was also used to illustrate the density of defects in perovskite films (Fig.  3d-f ). The charge density difference revealed that introducing fulleropyrrolidines can  
 Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-024-01381-7   significantly degrade the density of defect states. Through the density of states, we found that the addition of fulleropyrrolidines significantly reduced the defects in the perovskite films. It is worth noting that the multi-site interaction between the TPPF and the perovskite components results in a better defect passivation effect than the CPPF, consistent with the defect density results measured by the space-charge-limited current method. Transient photovoltage and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy were employed to evaluate the carrier recombination behaviour in the devices  37, 38  . They demonstrated that the introduction of fulleropyrrolidines effectively reduced carrier recombination, especially for the TPPF-based devices (Supplementary Figs.  18  and 19 ). The dark-state J-V results (Supplementary Fig.  20 ) may also support the above conclusions. Moreover, the TPPF with semiconductor properties elevated the conductivity of the perovskite films (Supplementary Fig.  21 ), which may promote carrier transport within the devices. Therefore, the introduction of TPPF effectively improved the perovskite film quality and passivated defects in the film, thereby increasing the device J SC . To investigate the underlying mechanism of the improved V OC we used scanning Kelvin probe force microscopy to investigate the potential difference at the perovskite/ETL interface  8, 39  . The surface potential difference between the PCBM and control perovskite was higher than 200 mV, yet the CPPF-and TPPF-based samples showed smaller potential differences (95 mV and 55 mV, respectively; Fig.  3g ). This result is consistent with the evolution of the energy band structure of the different perovskite films (Supplementary Fig.  22 ). This smaller potential difference is more conducive to minimizing open-circuit voltage losses  8, 19  , which is also the reason for the improved V OC of TPPF-based devices. As reported previously, the superoxide ion (O 2 -)-induced Sn 2+ oxidation and ion migration are important factors affecting the long-term stability of tin-based devices  [40] [41] [42] [43]  . We used a molecular fluorescent probe, 1,3-diphenylisobenzofuran (DPBF), to quantify the photolytic O 2 -yields  43  . The as-prepared perovskite films were placed in a pre-configured DPBF solution and fed with a quantitative (the flow rate (amount) of oxygen is the same in every experiment) amount of oxygen under light (Fig.  4a ). Solutions exposed to different illumination times were used to detect fluorescence quenching of the DPBF probe. Figure  4b ,c displays the solution's measured O 2 -ion increase rates with the three different perovskite films. We found that the perovskite films treated with fulleropyrrolidines exhibited lower O 2 -ion yields than the control perovskite films, particularly for TPPF. The electroluminance was also used to investigate ion migration in perovskite devices by applying different voltages. The TPPF-based devices exhibited smaller shifts than the control and CPPF-based devices (Supplementary Fig.  23 ), which was attributed to the improved perovskite film quality and the multi-site anchoring effect of TPPF at grain boundaries. Ultimately, the TPPF-based device showed excellent stability, maintaining 99% of its initial PCE after 3,000 h of storage in N 2 . In contrast, the control and CPPF-based devices maintained 60% and 90% of their initial efficiencies, respectively (Fig.  4d ). The unencapsulated TPPF-based device also showed excellent operational stability, maintaining 93% of its initial PCE after 500 h of continuous illumination, which is much better than the CPPF-based and control devices in Fig.  4e . Moreover, the unencapsulated TPPF-based device displayed improved stability in air with a humidity of 30% for 2,000 min, maintaining 98% of its initial efficiency, which was much better than that of the control and CPPF-based devices (which maintained 68% and 86% of their initial efficiencies, respectively) (Supplementary Fig.  24 ). The improved stability in air will benefit their potential commercial applications. The TPPF-based device also yielded enhanced thermal stability after continuous annealing at 85 °C for 660 min in the N 2 -filled glove box (Supplementary Fig.  25 ). The improved stability can be attributed to the multi-site coordination between TPPF and perovskite components, which in turn enhanced the anchoring effect on the Sn 2+ ions and the I -ions, reducing the formation of vacancies in the perovskite films. 
 Conclusion In this work, two pyridyl-substituted fulleropyrrolidine stereoisomers (CPPF and TPPF) were synthesized and used as additives to modulate the crystallization process of tin-based perovskite films. The two pyridine groups with a larger spatial distance on the TPPF provided multiple sites to coordinate with different colloids in the perovskite precursor solution, which effectively delayed the crystallization process and improved the quality of the perovskite films. The introduction of the TPPF also tuned the Fermi level of the perovskite film, making the energy level alignment at the interface of perovskite/ETL more closely matched, and enhanced the oxidation resistance of the perovskite film. As a result, the TPPF-based device achieved a PCE of 15.38% (certified 15.14%), outperforming existing TPSCs. The TPPF-based device exhibited excellent stability under shelf-storage and continuous illumination conditions. 
 Online content Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting summaries, source data, extended data, supplementary information, acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contributions and competing interests; and statements of data and code availability are available at  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-024-01381-7 . https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-024-01381-7   
 Methods 
 Materials PEDOT:PSS (product no. Al 4083) solution, 2-phenylethylamine hydroiodide (PEAI, 99.5%) and 2-phenylethanaminium bromide (PEABr, 99.9%) were purchased from Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp. Tin fluoride (SnF 2 , 99%), tin powder (Sn, 99.8%), NH 4 SCN (97.5%), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, anhydrous, 99.8%), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, anhydrous, 99.8%), chlorobenzene (anhydrous, 99.8%) and isopropanol (99.5%) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. The patterned ITO (7 Ω, square resistance) glass, SnI 2 (99.999%), formamidinium iodide (99.99%) and PCBM were obtained from Advanced Election Technology Co., Ltd. BCP was obtained from Lumtec. Silver (Ag) was from commercial sources with high purity (≥99.99%). All materials were used as received without any purification. 
 CPPF and TPPF synthesis 2-Picolylamine (35.7 mg, 0.33 mmol) and pyridine-2-aldehyde (41.8 mg, 0.39 mmol) were added to a solution of C 60 (216 mg, 0.3 mmol) in 1,2-dichlorobenzene (20 ml). The 2-picolylamine and pyridine-2-aldehyde could tautomerize to azomethine ylides that undergo a [2 + 3] cycloaddition reaction with C 60 . The reaction was then stirred thoroughly at 60 °C for 8 min. After cooling to room temperature, the reacted mixture was diluted using toluene. The separation was then carried out on a silica gel column. This progress took approximately 20 h. After rotary evaporation, high-purity CPPF and TPPF were obtained. The final yields of TPPF and CPPF were 5% (15 mg) and 65% (179 mg), respectively. 
 Device fabrication TPSCs were fabricated in an inverted structure of glass/ITO/PEDOT:PSS/ perovskite/PCBM/BCP/Ag. ITO substrates were washed with a detergent solution. The ITO substrates were then ultrasonically washed using deionized water, isopropanol and ethanol for 20 min. The substrates were then treated with UV-ozone for 15 min before device fabrication. After that, the PEDOT:PSS was spun onto the ITO substrates at 4,000 r.p.m. for 40 s, followed by annealing at 150 °C for 20 min. The PEABr (20 mg ml -1 in DMF) was deposited at 5,000 r.p.m. for 30 s, with annealing at 70 °C for 10 min. Then a 0.9 M control perovskite precursor solution consisting of SnF 2 , PEAI, formamidinium iodide and SnI 2 (0.075:0.15:0.85:1) in DMF and DMSO (4:1 v/v) was prepared. At the same time, the fullerene-based perovskite precursor was prepared by adding different amounts of CPPF and TPPF. The perovskite precursor was deposited on the substrates at 1,000 r.p.m. and 5,000 r.p.m. for 10 s and 30 s. Then 500 μl of toluene was used as an antisolvent by spin-coating in the second stage of about 22 s, followed by annealing at 70 °C for 10 min. After that, the 30 mg ml -1 PCBM (in chlorobenzene) was spun on the perovskite film as the ETL at 1,500 r.p.m. for 30 s. The BCP (0.5 mg ml -1 in isopropanol) was deposited at 5,000 r.p.m. for 30 s. Both the PCBM-and BCP-coated films were annealed at 70 °C for 10 min. Finally, a 100-nm-thick layer of Ag was evaporated on top of the BCP by thermal evaporation. 
 Measurement of superoxide yields DPBF (20 mg) was added to anhydrous toluene (20 ml) and stirred thoroughly. Then the as-prepared control, CPPF-and TPPT-based perovskite films were immersed into the DPBF solution. After that, continuous light and oxygen flow were applied to the solution and used to apply the photodegradation conditions. The light-/O 2 -treated solutions were drawn off for photoluminescence detection at regular intervals. The evolution of photoluminescence intensities at regular intervals indicates the yield of superoxides. 
 Characterizations The molecular mass was determined using a Bruker Esquire HCT mass spectrometer with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization ion source in negative ion mode. The NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker Avance III 500 MHz. The J-V curves were measured using a digital source meter (Keithley 2400) under AM 1.5 G conditions (EnliTech, AAA solar simulator). A black shadow mask with an effective area of 0.12 cm 2 was used to reduce the light scattering during the J-V measurements. The light intensity was calibrated using a National Renewable Energy Laboratory-calibrated Si solar cell with an infrared cutoff filter (KG-5). An EQE system (QER666; EnliTech), without any bias light, was employed to measure EQEs. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy spectra were collected by Thermo Fisher K-Alpha+. And the colloid size distribution was studied by dynamic light scattering (NanoBrook Omni). The UV-visible absorption spectra and steady-state photoluminescence of perovskite films were measured using an Ocean Optics Flame-S-VIS-NIR. The top-view morphology of perovskite films and cross-sectional images of the devices were collected using a field emission scanning electron microscope ( JEOL JSM-7610F). Grazing incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering data were obtained from Xenocs (Xeuss) with a photon wavelength of 1.5418 Å. The detections were carried out in a PILATUS3 R 300K area and placed 130 mm from the sample centre. Time-resolved photoluminescence decay transients were measured by a FLS1000 (Edinburgh Instruments) with pulsed excitation at 375 nm. The space-charge-limited current, dark J-V and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy were carried out using a CHI660E electrochemical workstation in the dark. The transient photovoltage data could be gained from the Zahner electrochemical workstation equipped with a transient electrochemical measurement unit (Fast CIMPS). The surface potential distribution between the perovskite and PCBM was acquired by Kelvin probe force microscopy (MM8 Manuals). An F-7000 (HITACHI) was employed to acquire the photoluminescence of DPBF through time. 
 Theoretical simulation We calculated the interaction and the corresponding charge density difference between the CPPF and TPPF and the perovskite films using the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof exchange and DFT and correlation functional with the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package  [44] [45] [46] [47] [48]  . The cutoff energy was 520 eV, while the maximum residual force on each atom was smaller than 0.01 eV Å -1 . The convergence criterion of total energy was less than 10 -6 eV. Fig. 1 | 1 Fig. 1 | Optoelectronic performance of the devices. a, Molecular structure of the TPPF (top left) and CPPF (bottom left) and a cross-sectional SEM image of a device (right). b, J-V curves of the best-performing TPSCs. c, A comparison of TPSC efficiencies reported in the literature with that achieved in our study (red star). d, EQE spectra and the corresponding integrated photocurrent for 
 Articlehttps://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-024-01381-7 
 Fig. 2 | 2 Fig. 2 | Regulatory mechanism of the crystallization process of perovskite film. a, Sn 3d 5/2 X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra of the SnI 2 , CPPF-SnI 2 and TPPF-SnI 2 films. a.u., arbitrary units. b, Simulations of the interaction between the CPPF and perovskite components showing N (highlighted by red dashed circles) coordinating with one SnI 6 cluster. c, Simulations of the interaction between TPPF and perovskite components showing N coordinating with two SnI 6 clusters. d, Colloid size distribution of the control, CPPF-and TPPF- 
 3 Fig. 3 | 33 Fig. 3 | Defect density and energy level alignment. a, SEM images of control, CPPF-and TPPF-based perovskite films. b, TRPL curves of perovskite films. c, Space-charge-limited current measurements of the different perovskite films using electron-only devices under dark conditions (the pink, purple and green lines represent the Ohmic conduction region, trap-filled region and Child region, respectively). d,e, Charge density difference for CPPF/perovskite (d) and TPPF/ perovskite (e). f, Density of defect states of control, CPPF-and TPPF-based perovskite films obtained from DFT calculations (VBM, valance band maximum; CBM, conduction band minimum). g, Surface potential distribution of different perovskite films with a PCBM ETL from Kelvin probe force microscopy measurements of control, CPPF-and TPPF-based perovskite films. The change in potential is obtained along the red line. PVSK, perovskite. 
 2 Fig. 4 | 2 -, 242 Photoluminescence intensity (a.u.)
