Paper #: 20378_2
Title: CsSnBr 3 , A Lead-Free Halide Perovskite for Long-Term Solar Cell Application: Insights on SnF 2 Addition
Solar cells based on "halide perovskites" (HaPs) have demonstrated unprecedented high power conversion efficiencies in recent years. However, the well-known toxicity of lead (Pb), which is used in the most studied cells, may affect its widespread use. We explored an all-inorganic lead-free perovskite option, cesium tin bromide (CsSnBr 3 ), for optoelectronic applications. CsSnBr 3 -based solar cells exhibited photoconversion efficiencies (PCEs) of 2.1%, with a short-circuit current (J SC ) of ∼9 mA cm -2 , an open circuit potential (V OC ) of 0.41 V, and a fill factor (FF) of 58% under 1 sun (100 mW cm -2 ) illumination, which, even though meager compared to the Pb analogue-based cells, are among the best reported until now. As reported earlier, addition of tin fluoride (SnF 2 ) was found to be beneficial for obtaining good device performance, possibly due to reduction of the background carrier density by neutralizing traps, possibly via filling of cation vacancies. The roles of SnF 2 on the properties of the CsSnBr 3 were investigated using ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy (UPS) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis.
H alide perovskite (HaP)-based solar cells have shown efficient light to electrical energy conversion. HaPs have the general composition AMX 3 (A: monovalent cation, primarily methylammonium (MA + ), formamidinium (FA + ) or cesium (Cs + ); M: most commonly Pb 2+ ; X: halide, Br -, Cl -, I -).  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10]  Some specific compositions of HaP-based cells have demonstrated power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) over 21%.  11  However, from the environmental point of view, Pb, a major structural component of HaPs, is globally considered as a harmful element. This explains the interest in replacing it, and tin (Sn) is a possible alternative (as is germanium, Ge). However, Sn perovskites suffer from instability caused by ready Sn 2+ → Sn 4+ oxidation and, likely related, small diffusion lengths. While several Sn-based HaP solar cells have been reported, finding ways to increase the stability is an important challenge to allow one to assess the future of Sn-based HaP cells. It was observed that MASnI 3 (band gap E BG of ∼1.23 eV) can be used for solar cells with efficiencies as high as 5-6%.  12, 13  FASnI 3 (E BG of 1.41 eV) based cells were observed to generate high photocurrents (23 mA cm -2 ), with an optimized PCE of 2.1%.  14  Addition of SnF 2 was found to improve the solar cell performance of Sn-based HaPs by reducing the excessive p-type doping of the resulting HaPs caused by air oxidation of Sn 2+ to Sn 4+ .  15, 16  It was also reported that SnF 2 improved the morphology and substrate coverage of the Sn perovskites.  14  In addition to SnF 2 , pyrazine addition to the perovskite precursor solution was reported to be beneficial, yielding a PCE of 4.8% for FASnI 3 , a result that was ascribed to homogeneous dispersion of SnF 2 in the HaP layer.  15  The highest reported PCEs for CsSnI 3 (E G of 1.27 eV) and CsSnBr 3 (E G of 1.75 eV) cells are ∼1.65 and 0.95%, respectively, also achieved through SnF 2 modification.  17  With MASnBr 3 (E G ≈ 2.15 eV that was sequentially deposited without SnF 2 ), an efficiency up to ∼1.1% was obtained when P3HT was used as a hole conductor.  18  Here, we use CsSnBr 3 as an active absorber for the solar cells in the "n-i-p" configuration. The solar cells with CsSnBr 3 (with SnF 2 addition) were optimized and tested using several "hole-selective" and "electron-selective" contacts, and a best PCE of 2.1% was obtained using 2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis(N,N-di-4methoxyphenylamino)-9,9′-spirobifluorene (spiro-MeOTAD) as a hole-transport material (HTM). To understand the fundamental role of SnF 2 on CsSnBr 3 as a PV material, we analyzed the structure and energetic properties (work function, W F , and top of the valence band, E VB ) using XPS and UPS. The time-dependent XPS analysis revealed that pristine CsSnBr 3 is susceptible to beam damage (metallic Sn formation was observed within ∼0.5 h of constant X-ray irradiation), while the addition of ∼20 mol % SnF 2 improves HaP stability to such an extent that no beam damage was observed after 2.5 h of constant X-ray irradiation. The structural and optical properties of CsSnBr 3 were analyzed using X-ray diffraction (XRD) and UV-visible spectroscopy. An XRD pattern of CsSnBr 3 deposited over mesoporous TiO 2 is shown in Figure  S1 . The indexed peaks correspond to the pure cubic perovskite phase of CsSnBr 3 .  17  The optical absorption edge of the as-prepared CsSnBr 3 (with 20 mol % SnF 2 ) was analyzed using UV-visible spectroscopy, and the reflection corrected transmittance (%) spectrum is shown in Figure  1 . The Tauc plot analysis (Figure  S2A ) indicates a direct band gap of ∼1.75 eV for CsSnBr 3 . The optical absorption profile of the CsSnBr 3 layer (∼300 nm) was also compared to that of Pb-based bromide HaPs (CsPbBr 3 and MAPbBr 3 , both approximately 300 nm thick), as shown in Figure  1 . Besides the expected red shift in the absorption onset of the Sn perovskite due to its lower band gap, the absorption is less strong compared to that of the Pb perovskites, something that has been observed for Sn perovskites in general.  12  The lower transmission of the Sn perovskite in the sub-band-gap region is due to higher scattering of these films compared to that of the Pb perovskites, only part of which is measured and corrected for by the integrating sphere. The higher scattering (lower transmission in the nonabsorbing wavelength region) of the CsSnBr 3 is probably due to the inhomogeneous nature of the film, formed during the spin-coating process. This is most likely due to our as yet limited experience with Sn perovskites compared to the Pb ones, rather than any intrinsic property of the CsSnBr 3 . The absorption coefficient (α) values of CsSnBr 3 as a function of wavelength are given in Figure  S2B . The peak that we observe at 500-520 nm for CsPbBr 3 and MAPbBr 3 (actually a dip in the transmission mode) could be due to an excitonic contribution, as discussed in our earlier study.  2  Devices were fabricated with the following architecture: FTO/d-TiO 2 /mp-TiO 2 or mp-Al 2 O 3 ; after perovskite deposition on the substrate, one of three HTMs (4,4′-bis(N-carbazolyl)-1,1′-biphenyl (CBP), poly[bis(4-phenyl)(2,4,6 trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA), or spiro-MEOTAD) was deposited and the device structure was completed by depositing a Au contact onto the HTM. Using mesoporous TiO 2 as the electron-transport material (ETM) and spiro-MEOTAD as the HTM gave the best photovoltaic (PV) performance. The J-V characteristics of the solar cells in the dark and under illumination are shown in Figure  2A  (with SnF 2 added during HaP preparation) and Figure  2B  (without SnF 2 addition). A dramatic, ∼200 times improvement in the PCE and a large improvement in all PV parameters resulted when 20 mol % SnF 2 was added. The distributions in various device parameters are shown in Figure  S3  (with SnF 2 ) and Figure  S4  (without SnF 2 ). The device cross section observed using SEM analysis with various detectors is shown in Figure  S5 , indicating the various layers of the cell, including the presence of the Sn perovskite in the mesoporous layer. Note that there was no capping layer of the perovskite above the TiO 2 because during spin-coating of the HTM the capping layer is essentially removed, possibly due to the complexation between 4-tert-butylpyridine ( t BuP, used as a dopant for the HTM) with the CsSnBr 3 , leading to the formation of a coordination complex, similar to what was observed in a recent study with MASnI 3 .  19  Such a capping layer is normally necessary for highefficiency Pb-based perovskite cells, presumably to prevent shorting between the HTM (or the contact made to it) and TiO 2 .   
 ACS Energy Letters 
 Letter The external quantum efficiency (EQE) of the CsSnBr 3 (with 20 mol % SnF 2 ) cell in the dark and under bias light (∼3% of full sun) is shown in Figure  S6 . The EQE profile is consistent with the transmittance profile (Figure  1 ), both in terms of the wavelength of absorption onset (∼710 nm) and the gradual decrease in the EQE going to longer wavelengths due to the suboptimal thickness. The EQE shows a maximum photoconversion of ∼55% at 375 nm. The J SC , calculated by integrating the area under the curve, is 6.8 mA cm -2 (no bias light) and 7.1 mA cm -2 (∼3% of full sun bias light), which is 2 mA/cm -2 less than the directly measured J sc (cf. Figure  2 , left). Part, and possibly all, of the reason for this difference in J SC is that the intensity of the white light bias used in the EQE measurements was only 3% of sunlight due to technical reasons (note that the EQE under light bias is higher than that in the absence of light bias). However, there are a number of reasons why the EQEs measured under low-intensity monochromatic radiation are less (or sometimes even more) than those measured from I-V curves. A further possible reason is that the EQE was measured after the I-V measurement and some degradation may have occurred. Devices without any HTM gave much poorer device performance than those with a HTM, that is, a V oc of 0.04 V, I SC of 2.6 mA/cm 2 , and PCE of ∼0.02% (Figure  S7 ). With mesoporous alumina (instead of TiO 2 ) as a scaffold, a reduction in the photocurrent is observed, decreasing the PCEs (Figure  S8 ) of the devices, while the V OC remains essentially the same as the best cells with mp-TiO 2 (0.42 V), the latter contrary to expectation. It may be that the increased recombination in this cell canceled out the extra voltage expected by replacing TiO 2 with Al 2 O 3 . Use of other HTMs such as PTAA (Figure  S9 ) or CBP (Figure  S10 ) resulted in a decrease in V OC (0.2 V for PTAA and 0.16 V for CBP) and in overall device efficiency. To see if SnF 2 affects the energy levels of CsSnBr 3 , we carried out UPS valence band analysis of CsSnBr 3 with and without SnF 2 (Figure  3 ). Addition of SnF 2 decreases the work function (W F ) and, to a greater extent, the ionization potential (valence band maximum, E VBM ) of CsSnBr 3 (W F = 4.52 eV and E VBM = 6.1 eV) compared to pristine CsSnBr 3 (W F = 4.62 eV and E VBM = 6.33 eV). This brings the VBM of the perovskite with SnF 2 somewhat closer to the HOMO level of the HTM, spiro (∼5.0 eV),  20  slightly decreasing the large loss of voltage at the HTM/HaP interface compared to pristine CsSnBr 3 . Varying the concentration of SnF 2 between 5 and 80 wt % revealed no significant change in the W F and E VBM energies of CsSnBr 3 compared to those of CsSnBr 3 with 20 wt % SnF 2 . Also, it was found that CsSnBr 3 (with 20 mol % SnF 2 ) gave the best device performances. In addition, the conduction band minimum (CBM, calculated from the E VBM and the optical band gap, neglecting exciton binding energy) for CsSnBr 3 (with and without SnF 2 ) can be estimated, assuming that the band energies do not change when the interfaces are formed. This shows a significant electron injection barrier between the perovskite and the CBM of the TiO 2 layer (0.48 eV for the pristine CsSnBr 3 and a smaller barrier of 0.25 eV for the material prepared with SnF 2 ). This barrier may, if viewed simplistically, preclude electron injection from the perovskite into the TiO 2 . There are two rather obvious reasons why electron injection may still occur: (1) While holes can easily be injected into the HTM, electrons will accumulate in the perovskite. This accumulation of electrons will lead to negative charging of the perovskite (i.e., the perovskite bands will move toward the vacuum level, upward in the scheme, on the electron energy scale), and this shift will continue until electrons can be injected into the TiO 2 CB and an equilibrium is reached. At the same time, the greater the accumulation of electrons in the perovskite, the greater electron-hole recombination is likely to be; this means that it is preferable to minimize the need for this charging. Thus, the CsSnBr 3 with SnF 2 , with a smaller barrier (in the dark) to electron injection from the perovskite to TiO 2 , should exhibit less recombination than the pristine perovskite for this reason alone. (2) Upon formation of the actual interface, a dipole may form at the TiO 2 /CsPbBr 3 interface that changes the band offsets at the interface even in the dark. Such a possible situation is not reflected in the band diagram in Figure  3 , which shows the band positions either of the isolated phases or of the surface of the perovskite and not the interface with TiO 2 . It is also possible that the SnF 2 creates such a dipole at the interface. This is an issue that can be explored in principle by in situ photoemission spectroscopy during interface formation, an approach that we are exploring in collaboration with a synchrotron research group. The HOMO level of spiro was taken from the literature.  20   
 ACS Energy Letters Letter However, the barrier can be one cause for the large current loss in cells made with the CsSnBr 3 /TiO 2 interface, particularly for the pristine CsSnBr 3 (Figure  3 ). This misalignment may result in high recombination of the photoexcited charge carriers with the photogenerated holes during illumination due to buildup of electron density in the perovskite. There is also a large voltage loss across the perovskite/HTM (spiro) interface (0.9 V). Hence, the calculated voltage loss (considering both ETM/perovskite and HTM/perovskite) is 1.15 V. This implies that CsSnBr 3 with an E G of 1.75 eV should result in a V OC of 0.6 V (using TiO 2 as an ETM with E CB ≈ 4.1 eV and spiro as a HTM, with a HOMO level of ∼5.0 eV), although this may be reduced due to negative charging of the perovskite by accumulated electrons upon illumination. We observe a V OC of 0.4 V (Figure  2A ), indicating an additional 0.2 V loss. This loss is most likely due to relatively high electron-hole recombination within the perovskite, seen from the relatively low J SC of the cells relative to the band gap and relatively low EQE (Figure  S6 ). The results indicate that HTMs with a deeper HOMO level (than spiro) may help to minimize the voltage loss at the perovskite/HTM interface. However, we did not observe an improved V OC using PTAA (with a HOMO level of -5.2 eV)  21  and CBP (with a HOMO level of -5.7 eV)  22  but rather a much lower one, a result that requires further investigation. The operational stability (near the maximum power voltage) of nonencapsulated devices (with and without SnF 2 ) was evaluated under continuous illumination in ambient and in an inert atmosphere. For both samples, a strong reduction in the photocurrent density (Figure  4  (1) and (  3 )) was observed in the first few minutes, when measured in ambient atmosphere (∼65% RH with 1 sun intensity). The sample without SnF 2 appears more stable over the longer time than that with SnF 2 (Figure  4  (3)), but it should also be noted that this sample also gave, and was tested at, a much smaller photocurrent density. This strong degradation is likely due to a coupled effect of moisturemediated decomposition and oxygen-mediated oxidation of Sn 2+ to Sn 4+ (possibly SnO 2 formation), leading to degradation of the perovskite structure. The reversal of the "photocurrent" with increasing time for the sample with SnF 2 is probably due to a combination of reduced photogenerated current and increased dark current (see Figure  S11 ) in the cell (operating at a constant 0.2 V forward bias). When the same experiment was performed (CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 ) with lower light intensity (∼0.1 sun) to give a comparable current density to the cell without SnF 2 , the decay in photocurrent (as a function of time) was observed to be much slower (Figure  4  (2)). This suggests that the photogenerated charges can cause instability, possibly by influencing the moisture and/or oxygen degradation rate. When the operational stability of the devices (with and without SnF 2 ) was measured under an inert atmosphere in a glovebox (O 2 < 0.1, H 2 O < 0.1 ppm illumination with a highintensity LED ≈ 2 sun intensity), the devices were observed to be nearly stable (Figure  5  (1) and (  2 )), maintaining most of their initial photocurrent (∼4% decrease compared to the initial photocurrent) over a 5 h period (the results of the same experiment with on-off cycles are shown in Figure  S12 ). When the device with SnF 2 was illuminated with low-intensity white light (∼0.1 sun LED light) to give a comparable current density to the cell without SnF 2 , no reduction in the photocurrent was observed (Figure  5  (3)). To investigate the role of SnF 2 on the stability of the CsSnBr 3 , time-dependent XPS measurements were carried out on CsSnBr 3 , (with and without SnF 2 ) by continuously irradiating the sample with the (1.4867 keV) X-ray beam of the XPS spectrometer. The results showed that, in contrast to CsSnBr 3 with SnF 2 (Figure  6B ), pristine CsSnBr 3 was highly susceptible to beam damage (Figure  6A ). For the latter, within 30 min of continuous irradiation, in addition to the expected 3d 5/2 peaks for divalent Sn (∼495.5 and ∼487.5 eV), additional peaks at ∼493 and ∼484.5 eV appear (marked with circles in the figure), which correspond to zero-valent Sn. However, no zero-valent Sn signal could be detected even after 3 h of continuous X-ray irradiation for CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 . This shows that addition of SnF 2 prevents Sn reduction from X-ray irradiation of the perovskite. From XPS, it was also observed that the fluoride   
 ACS Energy Letters Letter content at the film surface was 3-4 atom % (of the total halide content) in the CsSnBr 3 prepared with 20 mol % SnF 2 . Our analyses suggest that an important cause for the low cell voltages is that the energy levels are badly mismatched, which would mean that for CsSnBr 3 -based devices to become useful for solar cell application, especially better-matching selective conductors are needed. Achieving 2% PCE was possible because of SnF 2 addition, which, besides the known reduction in charge carrier concentration due to reduction in Sn vacancies, was found to (1) lead to somewhat less detrimental band alignment at the HaP interfaces and (2) increase stability to X-ray beam damage compared to pristine CsSnBr 3 and an apparent increase in stability under operating conditions. The operational instability in ambient air and relative stability under inert conditions suggest that, with suitable encapsulation, Sn HaP-based solar cells may become useful, either/both as stand-alone modules or/and as part of larger cell systems. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT 
 * S Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.6b00402. Experimental section, XRD analysis, Tauc plot, absorption cross section as a function of wavelength, cross-sectional SEM, J-V plots of various devices, and current densities with on-off cycles (PDF)  
 ACS Energy Letters Letter Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. Reflection-corrected normalized transmittance of MAPbBr 3 , CsPbBr 3 , and CsSnBr 3 (∼250-300 nm thick) on d-TiO 2 (∼70 nm)/ mp-TiO 2 (∼450 nm). The transmittance profiles for MAPbBr 3 and CsPbBr 3 are taken from previous work.3 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. J-V characteristics (cf. experimental section) of the best-performing CsSnBr 3 [(A) with and (B) without SnF 2 ] based cells in the dark and under illumination. PV parameters of the cells are tabulated at the bottom. [PCE: power conversion efficiency; FWD: forward; REV: reverse.] 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Energies of the VBM (from UPS measurements) and CBM (calculated from the UPS data and the optical band gap, i.e., neglecting the exciton binding energy) and the Fermi level (from UPS data) of dense TiO 2 , pristine CsSnBr 3 , and CsSnBr 3 (with 20 mol % SnF 2 ).The HOMO level of spiro was taken from the literature. 20   
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. Current density measured close to the maximum power point in an ambient atmosphere with continuous illumination as a function of time for (1) CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 at 0.2 V applied bias under 1 sun intensity (∼AM 1.5, 100 mW cm -2 ), (2) CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 measured at 0.08 V applied bias with ∼0.1 sun intensity, and (3) CsSnBr 3, measured at 0.08 V applied bias with 1 sun intensity (∼AM 1.5, 100 mW cm -2 ). 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. Current density measured close to the maximum power point in an inert atmosphere with continuous illumination with white LED as a function of time for (1) CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 with 0.2 V applied bias under ∼2 sun intensity, (2) CsSnBr 3 measured at 0.08 V applied bias under ∼2 sun intensity, and (3) CsSnBr 3 with 20 mol % SnF 2 measured at 0.08 V applied bias under ∼0.1 sun intensity. 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. Time dependence of XP spectra for (A) pristine CsSnBr 3 and (B) CsSnBr 3 prepared with 20% mol SnF 2 , showing severe beam damage only for CsSnBr 3 prepared without added SnF 2 . 
			 This is an open access article published under an ACS AuthorChoice License, which permits copying and redistribution of the article or any adaptations for non-commercial purposes.Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO onFebruary 26, 2025 at 17:25:46 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.
Paper #: 20378_3
Title: Radiative Monomolecular Recombination Boosts Amplified Spontaneous Emission in HC(NH 2 ) 2 SnI 3 Perovskite Films
Hybrid metal-halide perovskites have potential as cost-effective gain media for laser technology because of their superior optoelectronic properties. Although lead-halide perovskites have been most widely studied to date, tin-based perovskites have been proposed as a less toxic alternative. In this Letter, we show that amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) in formamidinium tin triiodide (FASnI 3 ) thin films is supported by an observed radiative monomolecular charge recombination pathway deriving from its unintentional doping. Such a radiative component will be active even at the lowest charge-carrier densities, opening a pathway for ultralow light-emission thresholds. Using time-resolved THz photoconductivity analysis, we further show that the material has an unprecedentedly high charge-carrier mobility of 22 cm 2 V -1 s -1 favoring efficient transport. In addition, FASnI 3 exhibits strong radiative bimolecular recombination and Auger rates that are over an order of magnitude lower than for leadhalide perovskites. In combination, these properties reveal that tin-halide perovskites are highly suited to light-emitting devices.
H ybrid metal halide perovskites are increasingly attracting attention as a class of low-cost semiconductors that can be easily synthesized via solution processing or vapor deposition techniques.  1, 2  Their favorable optoelectronic properties include high charge-carrier mobility, long charge-carrier lifetimes, high absorption coefficients, long charge-carrier diffusion lengths, and synthetic tunability.  3, 4  The recent focus has mostly been on photovoltaics, and perovskite-based cells now boast power conversion efficiencies in excess of 22%, rivaling existing silicon technologies.  5  However, a good photovoltaic material should also lend itself effectively to the reverse process-light emission. Hence, promising reports of LEDs and lasing are emerging.  [6] [7] [8]  Lasing is a particularly suitable application since there is currently a high demand for cost-effective laser diodes that can be assembled on chips using simple synthetic means. That said, many of the existing solution-processed materials have struggled to be competitive with traditional inorganic semiconductors currently implemented in laser diodes.  7  For example, organic semiconductors are limited by low charge-carrier mobility, low damage threshold, and losses due to exciton-exciton annihilation,  7, 9, 10  whereas colloidal quantum dots suffer from high Auger recombination rates that compete with photoemission.  7  Hybrid metal halide perovskites, on the other hand, offer a promising alternative because of their low defect densities, high charge-carrier mobilities, and high photoluminescence (PL) quantum yield.  7  Amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) and lasing have been reported for a range of hybrid perovskite materials including thin films, nanowires, and nanoparticles.  6, 7, [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17]  Reported ASE thresholds vary from less than 10 μJ/cm 2 to over 100 μJ/cm 2 , which are values already competitive with those of leading solution processed materials including organic semiconductors and quantum dots.  6, 7, 9, 18  Hybrid perovskite lasing through optical pumping has been demonstrated with a variety of cavity configurations, exhibiting high gain and Q-factors up to 3600.  6, 7  Furthermore, tunable lasing has been demonstrated at wavelengths ranging from the visible to the near-infrared,  6, 13  opening up a wide range of potential applications including spectroscopy, imaging, data storage, and telecommunications. Most of the studies of ASE and lasing in hybrid metal-halide perovskites have focused on lead-based perovskites such as methylammonium lead triiodide (MAPbI 3 ) and cesium lead triiodide.  6, 7  However, toxicity is a main deterrent for using lead perovskites for optoelectronic applications.  19, 20  For example, the European Union's RoHS compliance guidelines on electrical and electronic equipment limit lead content to less than 1000 ppm (there is an exemption for renewable energy technologies such as photovoltaic cells but not for lasers).  21  Varying legislation across different countries could make worldwide commercialization of light-emitting devices with lead-based materials difficult. Tin-based perovskites have therefore been proposed as a less toxic alternative.  13, [22] [23] [24]  Initial photovoltaic studies with hybrid tin perovskites have yielded power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) limited to below 6%, which is much lower than the record of now over 22% for This is an open access article published under a Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the author and source are cited. lead-based systems.  5, 22, 24, 25  This decreased efficiency has been attributed to p-doping, occurring as a result of a low formation energy of tin vacancies.  [26] [27] [28]  The additional holes released from dopant sites contribute to an enhanced monomolecular chargecarrier recombination rate, which decreases the diffusion length and leads to less efficient charge transport in the thin film.  5, 22, 24, 25  Accordingly, decreasing the doping concentration by adding excess Sn 2+ to the precursor solution has resulted in improved PCEs.  23, 29  Although such p-doping is clearly detrimental for photovoltaics, it can be advantageous for lasing applications, given that the additional monomolecular recombination pathway between electrons and holes released from dopants should be radiative for a direct band gap semiconductor. An enhanced radiative recombination pathway in the low charge-density regime would be highly beneficial for lasing because the ASE threshold is determined by the radiative lifetime and the overall lasing efficiency is governed by the radiative efficiency of the material.  30  For example, a recent report on GaAs nanowire lasers has demonstrated that it is possible to exploit p-doping specifically to improve radiative efficiency and decrease the ASE threshold.  31  Here, we conclusively show that formamidinium tin triiodide (FASnI 3 ) also displays such highly desirable monomolecular radiative charge-carrier decay channels. We demonstrate that thin films of FASnI 3 exhibit ASE at moderate threshold charge-carrier densities and analyze the recombination dynamics above and below threshold. We find that FASnI 3 exhibits an advantageous combination of a radiative bimolecular recombination rate constant similar to GaAs and an Auger rate constant much lower than those reported for lead-based perovskites. In combination with a high charge-carrier mobility, this lead-free material therefore displays highly favorable properties for light emission and lasing. FASnI 3 thin films were synthesized via spin-coating onto zcut quartz substrates using a solvent quenching approach, which enables the production of high quality, smooth, and continuous films (details in the Methods section). The resulting films were 380 nm thick and highly crystalline as we show in Figure  S1A  of the Supporting Information (SI). UVvisible absorption measurements revealed a band edge centered near 860 nm (1.44 eV) and high absorption coefficients approaching 1 × 10 5 cm -1 at shorter wavelengths (see Figure  S1B  of the SI). We determine a charge-carrier mobility of 22 cm 2 V -1 s -1 for the FASnI 3 thin films using contact-free optical pump-THz probe (OPTP) spectroscopy (see the SI for details on the charge-carrier mobility calculation).  32  This value is an order of magnitude higher than initial reports for tin perovskite thin films  22, 23  and more comparable to the best performing lead-based films,  3  suggesting that lasing in these FASnI 3 thin films should not be limited by low charge-carrier mobility as it has been in organic semiconductors.  9  Furthermore, high charge-carrier mobility is essential for electrically pumped lasing, which eliminates the need for optical pumping and thus facilitates miniaturization and chip integration.  5, 33  We demonstrate ASE in FASnI 3 thin films by evaluating the changes in the photoluminescence (PL) spectrum following photoexcitation at 800 nm with increasing excitation fluence and corresponding photogenerated charge-carrier densities (Figure  1A, B ). In the low-density regime (<6 × 10 17 cm -3 ) the PL peak is centered at 896 nm (1.38 eV), which corresponds to a Stokes shift from the absorption spectrum of 60 meV. This value is low compared to MASnI 3 (200 meV)  26  and nearer that for MAPbI 3 (10 meV),  34  suggesting that the substitution of FA for MA and the improved processing techniques used here significantly lower energetic disorder. This observation is consistent with the improved charge-carrier mobility we find for FASnI 3 , which is more than an order of magnitude higher than values reported for MASnI 3 thin films.  5, 22, 24, 25  A low Stokes shift is important for lasing applications because it prevents additional energy losses that  
 The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters Letter are dissipated as heat.  7  In addition to the decreased Stokes shift, the full-width-at-half-maximum (FWHM) of 110 meV (Figure  1C ) is lower than previously reported for MASnI 3 .  26  This decrease is most likely also the result of improved materials properties of these FASnI 3 films, although changes in electronphonon coupling may also play a role.  35  As the excitation fluence is increased, the FWHM begins to decrease until reaching 35 meV at 8 × 10 17 cm -3 , indicating that ASE is occurring. At carrier densities above 8 × 10 17 cm -3 , the intensity begins to deviate from its linear trend, which is an additional marker for ASE. Taken together, the two intensity trends mark an ASE threshold of approximately 8 × 10 17 cm -3 , which is within the range of values reported for other perovskite materials and comparable to other thin film technologies.  5, 6, 9, 18  At high carrier densities, the PL peak maximum gradually blue shifts until reaching 889 nm (1.4 eV) at a carrier density of 9.4 × 10 17 cm -3 . This shift is most likely the result of lattice heating because the band gaps of both tin and lead perovskites are known to blue shift with increasing temperature.  26, 34  Nearly identical results were obtained with first increasing and then decreasing excitation fluence, indicating that none of the observed changes were a result of damaging the sample. We proceed by analyzing the charge-carrier dynamics in FASnI 3 both below and at the ASE threshold using OPTP spectroscopy (Figure  2 ). In OPTP spectroscopy, the change in the broadband THz absorption is monitored as a function of the time delay between an optical pump pulse and THz probe pulse. Because mobile electrons decrease the transmission at THz frequencies, changes in the THz intensity (ΔT/T) can be attributed to changes in conductivity. As a result, ΔT/T is proportional to the photoconductivity and thus to the chargecarrier mobility multiplied with the charge-carrier density.  [36] [37] [38]  Therefore, the decay in signal toward positive time delay can be attributed to charge-carrier recombination assuming that the charge-carrier mobility is constant. An understanding of the overall charge-carrier recombination dynamics is important because efficient lasing requires the preference of radiative recombination over the various nonradiative processes that can occur. Though OPTP measurements by themselves will not reveal which of these mechanisms are radiative, further examination of the underlying processes may help. For example, because these lead and tin-based perovskites are predominantly direct band gap semiconductors, the bimolecular band-to-band recombination between electrons and holes should be radiative.  4  Auger recombination on the other hand, which involves electron-hole recombination through energy transfer to a third charge-carrier, is nonradiative and is a significant concern for lasing because it directly competes with bimolecular recombination at the high chargecarrier densities required for lasing.  3, 4  High Auger rates are one of the major limits to quantum dots and many other thin film technologies,  18, 39  and significant synthetic effort has been dedicated to decreasing these values. Finally, monomolecular recombination can be either radiative or nonradiative depending on the mechanism involved.  31  Hence following photoexcitation, the dynamic charge-carrier recombination processes in a p-doped material can be described by the following rate equation: = - - + - = - - - = - n t k n k n p p k n k n k n k n R n d d ( ) n 3 3 2 0 1 r 3 3 2 2 1 total T (1) where k 2 is the bimolecular recombination rate constant, k 3 is the third-order or Auger recombination rate constant, and R T = k 3 n 2 + k 2 n + k 1 total is the effective total recombination rate. Here, we reasonably assume that the density of photogenerated electrons equals the density of photogenerated holes (n = p). The monomolecular recombination rate k 1 total = k 2 p 0 + k 1 nr thus comprises two contributions: the first term (k 1 r = k 2 p 0 ) is mediated by the recombination of photogenerated electrons (n) with a constant dopant hole density (p 0 ) which should be radiative as it is fundamentally the same mechanism as the bimolecular recombination of photogenerated electrons (n) with photogenerated holes (p = n). The presence of doping hence introduces a radiative "pseudo-monomolecular" decay component at low charge-carrier densities. The second term (k 1 nr ) is caused by Shockley-Read-Hall (SRH) recombination,  40  which is mediated by traps that may act as recombination centers if both types of carriers are caught. In this case, charge-recombination tends to be nonradiative. Such Shockley-Read-Hall recombination appears to be the dominant process at low charge density for lead-based halide perovskites that exhibit nonradiative monomolecular rates attributed to charge-carrier capture into traps.  4, 41, 42  In contrast, tin-based perovskites may potentially exhibit radiative mono-  
 The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters Letter molecular decay channels because of their unintentionally high levels of p-doping as discussed above. To analyze the recombination parameters for these processes, the recombination dynamics in FASnI 3 were fitted to eq 1 for excitation fluences below the ASE threshold (Figure  2A ). A global fit across all of the fluences yields k 1 = 1.2 × 10 9 s -1 , k 2 = 2.3 × 10 -10 cm 3 s -1 , and k 3 = 9.3 × 10 -30 cm 6 s -1 . The first notable observation is that the Auger recombination rate constant (k 3 ) is over an order of magnitude lower than that typically found for lead-based hybrid perovskites  3  and is similar to that for GaAs.  43  Such low Auger rates suggest that tin-based perovskites can exhibit much higher radiative efficiencies at high charge-carrier densities than colloidal quantum dots and lead-based perovskites.  6, 7  We propose that the lower Auger rates for tin compared with lead iodide perovskites may be the direct result of the lower spin-orbit coupling (SOC) in the perovskites incorporating the lighter tin atoms.  44, 45  Such changes in SOC can profoundly affect the energy levels of spin-split-off states in the conduction band, which may be involved in the Auger recombination process. In particular, DFT calculations including SOC show that the splitting between the lowest conduction bands in lead perovskites such as CsPbI 3 is similar to its band gap energy.  46  This scenario may allow efficient near-vertical Auger transitions that satisfy the need for energy and momentum conservation, as is the case in GaSb.  47  For tin perovskites such as CsSnI 3 , on the other hand, the conduction band splitting is much smaller than the band gap energy,  44  which may reduce such Auger mechanisms substantially. Our observations suggest that tin halide perovskites therefore are intrinsically much more suitable than lead halide perovskites for applications requiring high charge carrier densities. Examining the value of the bimolecular charge recombination constant (k 2 ) extracted for FASnI 3 , we find this to be comparable to that of GaAs and the best lead-based perovskites measured, suggesting strong radiative band-to-band recombination. The monomolecular recombination rate we observe for FASnI 3 is significantly lower than previously reported for MASnI 3 ,  22  consistent with the improvement of film quality as discussed previously. However, through the more subtle analysis presented below, we will demonstrate that monomolecular recombination is partially radiative and that a high k 1 value is not necessarily detrimental to lasing for FASnI 3 . In addition, we analyze the charge-carrier recombination dynamics occurring at the ASE threshold, where we find charge-carrier recombination to accelerate. As seen in Figure  2B , the decay is faster in the presence of ASE (red dots) than it would be assuming that ASE is not occurring (dashed, black line, based on charge-recombination constants extracted for data below ASE threshold). We attribute this increased recombination rate to a relative increase in radiative recombination, as it concurs with the observed rapid increase in emission intensity at the threshold. This effect is hence another indicator of amplified emission in which the presence of the photon density inside the film enhances radiative emission.  13, 48  Although an analysis of OPTP data alone may not reveal the radiative nature of a recombination mechanism, its combination with radiative efficiency data can provide very conclusive results.  3, 4  To further analyze the mechanisms of monomolecular recombination, we carefully determined the relative radiative efficiency over the low charge-carrier density regime spanning more than 6 decades of excitation fluences below the ASE threshold (Figure  3 ). In general, the radiative efficiency (the number of photons emitted per photons absorbed) is given by the ratio of radiative charge-carrier recombination rates over that of all (radiative and nonradiative) rates.  3, 4  Following our above arguments of purely radiative bimolecular recombination, and purely nonradiative Auger recombination, the radiative efficiency Φ(n) in the absence of ASE then depends on the charge-carrier density through Φ = + + + n k nk k nk n k ( ) 1 r 2 1 total 2 2 3 (2) where k 1 r is the radiative (dopant mediated) component of the monomolecular recombination, k 1 nr is the nonradiative (SRH) component, and k 1 total = k 1 r + k 1 nr . We note that because the values of k 1 total , k 2 , and k 3 are already determined from OPTP measurements, fits of eq 2 to the radiative efficiency data displayed in Figure  3  will allow for a highly accurate separation of k 1 total into its radiative and nonradiative parts. However, a qualitative assessment of whether radiative recombination contributes to the monomolecular decay in FASnI 3 can already be made from the functional form of the data in the low chargecarrier density regime. For the case of purely nonradiative monomolecular decay (k 1 r = 0), eq 2 approximates to Φ(n) ∼ nk 2 /k 1 total , that is, the function should linearly approach the origin as shown by the blue line in Figure  3A . However, comparison with the data shows that this is clearly not the case; rather, the data approach a constant value toward low chargecarrier density. This is exactly as would be expected in the For the experimental data (open, red circles), the FASnI 3 film was photoexcited at 790 nm with fluences ranging from 1.1 pJ/cm 2 to 2.1 μJ/cm 2 . The solid red line is a fit to eq 2, and the solid blue line was calculated using eq 2 and setting k 1 r = 0. Part A highlights the experimentally accessible range of carrier densities, and part B includes a wider range of carrier densities to highlight the monomolecular, bimolecular, and Auger-dominated regimes. 
 The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters Letter presence of a radiative contribution to k 1 total , for which eq 2 approaches Φ(n) ∼ k 1 r /k 1 total at low charge-carrier densities. The functional form of the radiative efficiency data therefore clearly demonstrates that monomolecular recombination in FASnI 3 has radiative contributions. To quantify this contribution, eq 2 was fit to the experimental data with the values of k 1 total , k 2 , and k 3 determined from OPTP measurements (Figure  3 ). With the inclusion of a scaling parameter, the fit yielded a value of k 1 r = 1.1 × 10 8 s -1 , indicating that about one tenth of the monomolecular recombination in this material is radiative. Because this radiative contribution most likely originates from unintentional hole doping, the hole-doping density p 0 can be calculated using k 1 r = p 0 k 2 to be 4.8 × 10 17 cm -3 , which is similar to doping densities estimated from Hall measurements on MASnI 3 single crystals.  22, 49  In general, doping levels will depend on the exact processing and treatments used for tin perovskites and will therefore be a tunable parameter.  13, 23, 29  The unintentional doping level we report for FASnI 3 here is at least 2 orders of magnitude above typical estimates for hybrid lead halide perovskites,  [50] [51] [52]  which explains why radiative contributions to the monomolecular decay channels are not typically observed in past studies of lead-based perovskites.  41, 42  However, recent studies of methylammonium lead iodide perovskite films have shown that passivation with Lewis bases can to PL lifetimes in the microsecond regime, for which radiative monomolecular components may then also begin to emerge.  53  The relative presence of such radiative contributions in the low charge-density regime hence is influenced by the relative tradeoff between dopant concentration and trap-mediated (SHR) recombination. Figure  3B  extends the radiative efficiency curves (eq 2) to higher charge carrier densities. The red curve shows the actual values in the presence of a radiative monomolecular component, whereas the blue curve shows the expected behavior for purely nonradiative (SRH) monomolecular decay. The peak near n ∼ 10 19 cm -3 indicates the range of charge-carrier densities where bimolecular radiative recombination dominates. Not surprisingly, the measured threshold for ASE near 8 × 10 17 cm -3 corresponds to the onset of strong bimolecular recombination. Hence the radiative efficiency is still limited at the high end by Auger recombination and on the low end by monomolecular recombination. However, the radiative component of the monomolecular recombination distinctly raises the radiative efficiency at low charge-carrier densities and also at the peak; hence, it must contribute to lower the ASE threshold and therefore ultimately yield more efficient lasing.  30, 31  In addition, the ASE threshold could be lowered further through a reduction of the nonradiative component of the monomolecular decay channels that may originate from traps caused by a variety of vacancies, interstitials, or substitutions  28  because this would increase the relative radiative contribution in the low charge-density regime. Therefore, the unintentional p-doping encountered in tin halide perovskites can open the door for lasing thresholds that are substantially reduced  13, [22] [23] [24]  with respect to the current leadbased perovskites. We also note that the concept of doping is already used extensively in the well-established field of inorganic semiconductor light-emitting diodes, where deliberate introduction of dopant gradients allows control over lightemission at p-n junctions  54  and enhances radiative recombination.  31  Attaining better control over p-doping in tin based perovskites and implementing combinations with suitable n-doped materials can therefore open interesting possibilities for highly efficient hybrid perovskite light-emitting diodes. In conclusion, we have demonstrated and analyzed ASE in FASnI 3 thin films exhibiting a threshold charge-carrier density of 8 × 10 17 cm -3 . We find that FASnI 3 is highly suited to lasing applications because it exhibits high charge-carrier mobility in combination with very low Auger and strong radiative bimolecular recombination rate constants similar to GaAs. We further show that, unlike typical lead-based halide perovskites, FASnI 3 displays a radiative monomolecular recombination pathway, which we attribute to its unintentional p-doping with relatively high doping density near 5 × 10 17 cm -3 . Such a radiative component will be active even at the lowest charge-carrier densities, opening a pathway for ultralow ASE thresholds. All of these properties indicate that FASnI 3 is a promising lead-free material for realizing low-cost, on-chip laser diodes, which are in high demand for many optoelectronic applications.  7  ■ EXPERIMENTAL METHODS Synthesis of FASnI 3 Thin Films. FASnI 3 thin films were prepared from a mixture of a 1:1 molar ratio of FAI to SnI 2 at 1 M in a mixed solvent of DMF:DMSO 65:35 by volume. Excess 0.2 M SnF 2 was added into the precursor solution (i.e., providing a 20% excess of Sn 2+ ). The precursor solution was spin-coated onto oxygen plasma-cleaned z-cut quartz substrates dynamically at 7000 rpm for 1 s in a nitrogen-filled glovebox and subsequently immersed into a Petri dish containing an antisolvent (anisole) for 5s. The film was dried with a nitrogen gun and annealed at 70 °C for 20 min. Steady-State PL Spectra. To obtain steady-state PL spectra, the films were photoexcited at 800 nm using an amplified laser system (Spectra Physics, Millennia-Tsunami-Empower-Spitfire) with a 40 fs pulse width and 1.1 kHz repetition rate. PL spectra were collected at fluences ranging from 159-795 μJ/cm 2 using a UV-vis mini spectrometer (Ocean Optics, USB2000+) fitted with an optical fiber, a collimating lens, and an 850 nm longpass filter. Optical-Pump THz Probe (OPTP) Spectroscopy. The OPTP setup uses the output of an amplified laser (Millennia-Tsunami-Empower-Spitfire), which is centered at 800 nm, has a repetition rate of 1 kHz, and has a pulse duration of 40 fs. Portions of the laser beam were used to generate THz radiation via optical rectification in a 450-μm thick GaP(110) crystal and to detect it via free-space electro-optic sampling in a ZnTe crystal (0.2 mm ZnTe(110) on 3 mm ZnTe(100)). The remainder of the beam was used to photoexcite the sample. Charge-carrier recombination dynamics are obtained by monitoring the change in peak THz amplitude (ΔT/T) as a function of the delay between the optical pump pulse and the THz probe pulse. All of the measurements were performed with the entire THz beam path and sample in vacuum. Radiative Ef f iciency. The thin films were photoexcited with a Ti:sapphire oscillator (Mai Tai, Spectra Physics), which has a pulse duration of 80 fs and a repetition rate of 80 MHz. The center wavelength was tuned to 790 nm. Photoluminescence from the sample was collected by a pair of off-axis parabolic mirrors, focused onto a grating monochromator (Triax, Horiba), and detected using a nitrogen-cooled Si-CCD detector (Symphony, Horiba). 
 The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters Letter Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (A) PL spectra obtained following photoexcitation at 800 nm. Spectra were acquired while increasing the fluence such that the carrier densities ranged from 5.5 × 10 17 cm -3 to 9.4 × 10 17 cm -3 . Laser excitation fluences were converted to charge-carrier density, taking into account the nonlinear relationship at high fluence between the incident fluence and the resulting charge-carrier density in the film (Figure S2). Additionally, reported charge-carrier densities have been averaged to account for the finite charge-carrier lifetime and sample thickness (see SI for further details). Spectra obtained while decreasing the carrier density are included in Figure S3. (B) Integrated PL intensity as a function of average charge-carrier density. Values were obtained as the excitation intensity was first increased (red dots) and then decreased (blue dots). The solid gray lines indicate an ASE threshold at an average charge-carrier density of approximately 8 × 10 17 cm -3 . (C) Changes in FWHM of the PL peak with increasing (red dots) and decreasing (blue dots) carrier density. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (A) Charge-carrier dynamics in FASnI 3 below the ASE threshold. The film was photoexcited at 800 nm with fluences ranging from 9-88 μJ/cm 2 . The dots indicate experimental data, and the solid lines are fits to eq 1. (B) Charge-carrier dynamics at the ASE threshold. The film was photoexcited at 800 nm with a fluence of 350 μJ/cm 2 . The red dots represent experimental data, and the dashed red line is calculated from the fitting parameters obtained in part A and represents the predicted carrier dynamics at this fluence assuming an absence of ASE. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Radiative efficiency as a function of average carrier density.For the experimental data (open, red circles), the FASnI 3 film was photoexcited at 790 nm with fluences ranging from 1.1 pJ/cm 2 to 2.1 μJ/cm 2 . The solid red line is a fit to eq 2, and the solid blue line was calculated using eq 2 and setting k 1 r = 0. Part A highlights the experimentally accessible range of carrier densities, and part B includes a wider range of carrier densities to highlight the monomolecular, bimolecular, and Auger-dominated regimes. 
			 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 26, 2025 at 17:25:39 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2016, 7, 4178-4184
Paper #: 20378_4
Title: Mesoscopic CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction solar cells
We report for the first time on a hole conductor-free mesoscopic lead iodide CH3NH3PbI3(perovskite)/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell, produced by deposition of perovskite nanoparticles from a solution of CH3NH3I and PbI2 in butyrolactone on a 400nm thick film of TiO2 (anatase) nanosheets exposing (001) facets. An Au film was evaporated on top of the CH3NH3PbI3 served as a back contact. Importantly, the CH3NH3PbI3 nanoparticles act assumes here simultaneously the role of light harvester and hole conductor rendering superfluous the use of an additional hole transporting material. The simple mesoscopic CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell shows impressive photovoltaic performance with short circuit photocurrent (Jsc) of 16.1 mA/cm 2 , an open circuit photovoltage (Voc) of 0.631 V and a fill factor (FF) of 0.57, corresponding to a light to electric power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 5.5% under standard AM 1.5 solar light of 1000 W/m 2 intensity. At a lower light intensity of 100W/m 2 a PCE of 7.3 % was measured. The advent of such simple solution processed mesoscopic heterojunction solar cells paves the way for new advances to realize low cost, high-efficiency solar cells.
Introduction Due to their large optical cross section nanocrystaline pigments are attractive light harvesters in solar conversion systems. In particular quantum dots (QDs) have attracted a lot of attention due to their tunable band gap  [1] [2] [3]  A variety of strategies have been applied to integrate QDs into solar cells, including QD-polymer hybrid solar cells, QD-Schottky barrier solar cells, QD-sensitized titanium dioxide (TiO2) solar cells, and QD hybrid bilayer solar cells.  [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12]  Re-cent investigations focus on depleted heterojunction devices, employing a mesoscopic wide band gap semiconductor oxide such as TiO2 or ZnO as a thin spacer layer between the QDs and the conducting transparent oxide current collector.  [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21]  Efficiencies of 5-6% were observed with these simple structures. In addition, a tandem QDs solar cell with the same structure has been demonstrated as well.  18  Multiple exciton generation (MEG) effect was also demonstrate in similar QDs based solar cell structure.  22, 23  While such heterojunction QD solar cells show promising photovoltaic performance, they still are facing problems such as stability, low open circuit voltage and fast carrier recombination which prevent them from achieving higher efficiencies. The direct band gap, large absorption coefficients  24, 25  and high carrier mobility  26, 27  of organo-lead halide perovskites render them very attractive for use as light harvesters in mesoscopic hetero-junction solar cells. Their electronic properties can be tailored using the organic component allowing e.g. for layered materials to be formed where the distance and the electronic coupling between the inorganic sheets can be controlled by the structure of the organic component. The layered perovskite have high stability in dry air. Importantly these perovskites nanopigments are easy to prepare and simple to deposit by solution processing such us spin-or dip coating. The perovskite precipates from a solution of PbI2 and methylamonium iodide forming CH3NH3PbI3 crystals within the pores and on the surface of the mesoscopic TiO2 substrate. The ionic and covalent interaction between the metal cations and the halogen anions creates inorganic octahedra, while the cationic alkylammonium head groups bind to the halogens to charge balance the structure. Previous reports used CH3NH3PbI3 nanocrystals as sensitizers in pho-toelectrochemical cells with liquid electrolyte  28, 29, 30  . However the performance of these systems rapidly declined due to dissolution of the perovskite. Very recently, the tin iodide based perovskite CsSnI3 has been employed as a hole conductor along together with N719 as sensitizer in solid state dye-sensitized solar cells yielding a PCE of 8.5%.  31  Here we report on CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell using anatase nanosheets with dominant (001) facets as electron collector. The pervoskite act as an absorber and at the same time as a hole conductor, rendering superfluous the use of an additional p-type material for transporting positive charge carriers. This simple mesoscopic heterojunction solar cell achieved a remarkable photovoltaic performance with current density of 16.1 mA cm - 2 , FF of 0.57 and Voc of 0.631V corresponding to a light to electric power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 5.5% under 1 sun intensity. This is the first report on the successful use of CH3NH3PbI3 as an absorber and hole transporting material in a heterojunction solar cell. 
 Results and discussion The synthesis of CH3NH3PbI3 and deposition on the mesoporous TiO2 film was carried out by spin coating a 40 wt% precursor solution of CH3NH3I and PbI2 in -butyrolactone. CH3NH3I was synthesized by reaction of HI with 40% methylamine in methanol solution and recrystallization. The film coated on the TiO2 darkened upon drying at room temperature, indicating the formation of CH3NH3PbI3 in the solid state. Figures  1A  and 1B  present a scheme of the device structure and its energy level diagram. The conduction and valence bands of the CH3NH3PbI3 permit electron injection and hole transportation to the TiO2 and the gold respectively. The bottom part of the device, acting as electron collector, is composed of a 100 nm thick hole blocking compact TiO2 film supported by the FTO transparent glass front contact, onto which a ca 500 nm thick layer of the TiO2 nanosheets was deposited. The light is absorbed by the CH3NH3PbI3 nanoparticles, which were deposited onto the TiO2 by spin coating technique. A gold contact was eveporated on top of the CH3NH3PbI3 thin film.      1 ). The PEC increase at 100 W/m 2 intensity to 7.28% with Jsc of 2.14 mA cm -2 , a fill factor of 62% and Voc of 0.565 V. The incident photon to current conversion efficiency (IPCE) specifies the ratio of extracted electrons to incident photons at a given wavelength. The IPCE spectrum (Figure  3B ) is plotted as a function of wavelength of the light. The solid state CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell shows an excellent response from 400 -800nm, the IPCE is reaching its maximum of 90% over the wavelength range from 400 nm to 540 nm decreasing at longer wavelength till 780nm. Integration of the IPCE spectrum over the AM1.5 solar emission yields a photocurrent density of 16.2 mA/cm 2 , in good agreement with the measured values, showing that the spectral mismatch between the solar simulator employed and the true AM 1.5 solar emission is negligibly small.   
 Conclusions In summary the present work establishes for the first time that CH3NH3PbI3 nanocrystals can act both as efficient light harvester and hole transporter in solar cells comprising a meoscocopic CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojuntion. The role of the TiO2 nanoplatelets is to accept electrons and transport them to the front collector. This eliminates the need for employing an additional organic or inorganic hole conductor, whose infiltration in the mesoporous TiO2 has posed difficulties in the past. There is much room for further improvement of the PCE in particular by increasing the FF and Voc and this will be the focus of our continuing investigations The fact that the perovskite is stable in dry ambient air and can be deposited by low cost solution processing opens up new ways for future development of high efficiency low cost photovoltaic cells. 
 Experimental 
 CH3NH3I synthesis CH3NH3I was synthesized by reacting 30 mL methylamine (40% in methanol, TCI) and 32.3 mL of hydroiodic acid (57 wt% in water, Aldrich) in a 250 mL round bottomed flask at 0 o C for 2 h with stirring. The precipitate was recovered by putting the clear solution on a roti-vapor and carefully removed the solvents at 50 o C. The yellowish raw product, methylammonium iodide (CH3NH3I), was washed with diethyl ether by stirring the solution for 30 min, which was repeated three times, and then finally recrystallized from a mixed solvent of diethyl ether and ethanol. After filtration, the solid was collected and dried at 60 o C in vacuum oven for 24 h. 
 Synthesis and purification of TiO2 nanosheets The synthesis of the nanosheets followed the typical experimental procedure.  32  Ti(OBu)4 (10 mL, 98%) and hydrofluoric acid (0.8 mL, 47%) solution mixed in a 150 mL dried Teflonautoclave which was kept at 180 ºC for 24 h to yield well-defined rectangular sheet-like structures with a side length of 30 nm and a thickness of 7 nm. After the reaction the dispersion was cooled to room temperature, the white powder was separated by high-speed centrifugation and washed with ethanol followed by distilled water for several times. Caution: Hydrofluoric acid is extremely corrosive and a contact poison, it should be handled with extreme care! Hydrofluoric acid solution is stored in Teflon containers in use. 
 Solar cell fabrication Thin dense TiO2 layer of ~100 nm thickness was deposited onto a SnO2:F conducting glass substrate (15Ω/cm, Pilkington) by spray pyrolysis method  33  . The deposition temperature of TiO2 compact layer was 450 °C. TiO2 nanosheet films of ~ 0.5 μm thickness was prepared by spin coating method onto this substrate using the TiO2 nanosheets with 001 dominant facets. The TiO2 layer was annealed at 500 ˚C for 30 min in air. The substrate was immersed in 40 mM TiCl4 aqueous solutions for 30 min at 70 ˚C and washed with distilled water and ethanol, followed by annealing at 500 ˚C for 30 min in air. The synthesis of CH3NH3PbI3 on the TiO2 surface was carried out by dropping on the TiO2 film a 40 wt% precursor solution of equimolyr CH3NH3I and PbI2 in -butyrolactone. Film formation by spin coating (2000 rpm, 30 sec) in the glove box. The film coated on the TiO2 changed its color upon drying at room temperature, indicating the formation of CH3NH3PbI3 in the solid state. The CH3NH3PbI3 film was annealed under argon for 15min at 100 0 C. Finally the counter electrode was deposited by thermal evaporation of gold under a pressure of 5×10 -5 Torr. The active area was 0.12 cm 2 . After the preparation, the cells were allowed to expose in air. 
 Photovoltaic Characterization Photovoltaic measurements employed an AM 1.5 solar simulator equipped with a 450W xenon lamp (Model No. 81172, Oriel). Its power output was adjusted to match AM 1.5 global sunlight (100 mW/cm 2 ) by using a reference Si photodiode equipped with an IR-cutoff filter (KG-3, Schott) in order to reduce the mismatch between the simulated light and AM 1.5 (in the region of 350-750 nm) to less than 2% with measurements verified at two PV calibration [ISE (Germany), NREL (USA)]. I-V curves were obtained by applying an external bias to the cell and measuring the generated photocurrent with a Keithley model 2400 digital source meter. The voltage step and delay time of photocurrent were 10 mV and 40 ms, respectively. A similar data acquisition system was used to determine the monochromatic incident photon-toelectric current conversion efficiency. Under full computer control, light from a 300 W xenon lamp (ILC Technology, U.S.A.) was focused through a Gemini-180 double monochromator (Jobin Yvon Ltd., U.K.) onto the photovoltaic cell under test. The monochromator was incremented through the visible spectrum to generate the IPCE (λ) as defined by IPCE (λ)) = 12400(Jsc/λφ), where λ is the wavelength, Jsc is short-circuit photocurrent density (mA cm -2 ), and φ is the incident radiative flux (mW cm -2 ). Photovoltaic performance was measured by using a metal mask with an aperture area of 0.49 cm 2 . The cross section of the device was measured by Zeiss Jemini FEG-SEM, using 5kV with magnification of 250KX. Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : (A) Scheme of the device structure ; (B) Energy level diagram of the CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell. 
 Figure 2 2 Figure 2 shows high resolution scaning electron microscopy (HR-SEM) image of the cross section of the solar cell.. The change in contrast above the compact TiO2 layer indicates the penetration of the CH3NH3PbI3 nanocrystals into the pores formed by the anatase film. 
 Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : Transmission electron microscopy picture of the cross section of the CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell. The dark areas can be attributed to the CH3NH3PbI3 which penetrates through the mesopores TiO2 film. 
 Figure Figure 3A exhibits J-V characteristics of the mesoscopic CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 heterojunction photovoltaic cell under 1 sun illumination. Under standard reporting conditions, i.e. AM 1.5 solar light at 1000 W/m 2 the device produced an open-circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.631 V, a short circuit current density (Jsc) of 16.1mA cm -2 and a fill factor of 57% corresponding to a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 5.5% (table1). The PEC increase at 100 W/m 2 intensity to 7.28% with Jsc of 2.14 mA cm -2 , a fill factor of 62% and Voc of 0.565 V. 
 Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3: (A) J-V characteristic of the Lead iodide Perovskite/TiO2 heterojunction solar cell; (B) IPCE spectrum of the device. 
 Table 1 : Photovoltaic device parameters of the CH3NH3PbI3/TiO2 solar cell 1 Sun In- Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) Voc (mV) FF tensity (%) 10 2.1 565.8 0.62 7.28 100 16.1 631.6 0.57 5.5
