Paper #: 16840_1
Title: Correlation between Photoluminescence Features and Enhanced Performance in Formamidinium Lead Triiodide Quantum Dot Solar Cells by Replacement of Octadecene

Introduction Perovskite quantum dots (PeQDs) have a real potential to revolutionize the technology of optoelectronic devices in the near future, as the fast progress of all QD solar cells reaching power conversion efficiency (PCE) exceeding 18%  [1]  and the achieving of near unity photoluminescence quantum yield (PL QY) for LED applications demonstrates.  [2]  The enormous interest that has been aroused around these nanomaterials stems from the fact that they possess a combination of high light absorption coefficient, long carrier diffusion length, and small exciton binding energies.  [3, 4]  On top of that, they can be easily synthesized as colloidal inks of monodisperse particles and are tunable at synthesis in anion/cation composition, bandgap, and electron energy levels,  [5] [6] [7] [8]  framing them as exceptionally enticing optoelectronic materials ready to be scaled up at industrial levels. For photovoltaics, CH(NH 2 ) 2 PbI 3 (formamidine lead triiodide or FAPbI 3 ) is theoretically the best candidate. As a hybrid organic/inorganic perovskite material, it exhibits a bandgap (≈1.48-1.52) closer to the ideal for single junction design (≈1.38 eV) with respect to the fully inorganic ones (e.g., cesium lead triiodide, CsPbI 3 ) and a higher chemical and thermal stability than methylammonium-based perovskites. In practice though, some technological constraints must be overcome. For example, the perovskite crystalline phase of FAPbI 3 (cubic α-FAPbI 3 ) is metastable and easily reverts to a wider bandgap non-perovskite phase if no special precaution is adopted.  [9]  QDs of FAPbI 3 are stable in the cubic perovskite phase and can be easily synthesized with wet chemistry methods that employ readily accessible precursors and less harmful solvents and require fewer precautions regarding exposure to environmental moisture. In contrast to purely optical applications (e.g., LEDs), in the case of photovoltaics, it is necessary to replace the lengthy insulating ligands used as capping agents during synthesis. This substitution enhances the electrical and optical coupling of adjacent QDs in a film, thereby increasing the mobility of photogenerated carriers. Addressing surface chemistry issues in FAPbI 3 QDs is then crucial for enhancing the efficiency of QD solar cells, improving short-circuit current density ( J SC ) and fill factor (FF).  [10, 11]  Despite the incredible efforts among research groups, the weak surface ionic bonds limit the use of strongly polar solvents for ligand exchange (LE), without compromising phase stability.  [12]  Diverse strategies including synthetic route variations,  [13]  ligand engineering either in colloid  [10]  or during spin coating,  [12, 14]  and the addition of molecules or specific salts during QD film formation  [15]  aim to address these issues. However, an efficient LE protocol for FAPbI 3 remains elusive, and certain aspects of the matter are yet unexplored. In this study, we research a variation that has never been done before by exchanging the support solvent 1-octadecene (ODE) with a shorter chemical analogue 1-octene (OCE) for the synthesis of FAPbI 3 QD films. While these support solvents are not DOI: 10.1002/solr.202400379 In this study, an innovative approach is developed for fabricating formamidinium lead triiodide (FAPbI 3 ) quantum dots (QDs) by substitution of octadecene (ODE). The results showcase the formation of superior-quality FAPbI 3 QD films, boasting enhanced photoluminescence (PL) and transport properties. Specifically, ODE has been replaced with octene (OCE), a shorter linear alpha olefin. Comparisons are drawn between the novel synthesis method and the conventional ODE-based QD films, scrutinizing their optical properties and applicability in QD solar cells. The outcomes highlight distinctions in temperature-dependent PL emission characteristics, revealing an unprecedented absolute PL QY of up to 84%, a notable improvement from the 70% achieved with ODE, along with enhanced transport properties. Furthermore, the performance of both systems in QD solar cells is evaluated for two values of layer thickness, 100 and 200 nm, to investigate the transport properties at the device level. The results exhibit a remarkable improvement from 200% to 150% in average power conversion efficiency (PCE) and consistently higher values for open-circuit voltage and short-circuit current density for the OCE-based solar cell compared to an ODE-based counterpart for both thickness values, reaching a striking 6.7% PCE for the best-performing device despite the nonideal conditions. believed to play a direct role in the chemistry of synthesis, we find significant improvements in the PL QY and in the performance of QD-based solar cells. In addition, we observe unexpected variations in temperature-dependent PL properties. Our objective then is to gain a fundamental understanding of how these solvents impact the optical properties of spin-coated films and the performance of solar cells. 
 Results and Discussion 
 FAPbI 3 QDs Synthesis and Thin-Film Formation The synthesis method is based on an established hot injection protocol assisted by an oleic acid (OA)/oleylamine (OAm) pair.  [16]  The process is slightly modified for OCE, in order to take into account its different vapor pressure at the usual synthesis temperatures used in literature and more details can be found in the Section S1, Supporting Information. Briefly, we initiated the reaction by dissolving PbI 2 , OA, and OAm in OCE at 100 °C (130 °C for ODE) under dry N 2 flow followed by the injection of a prepared formamidinium oleate solution at 80 °C. Despite the challenges such as faster evaporation of OCE and potential temperature control issues, we successfully synthesized FAPbI 3 QDs with room temperature PL characteristics similar to those produced by the ODE method at the same injection temperature. FAPbI 3 QDs exhibit excellent dispersion in hexane, as illustrated in Figure  1a , and stability over storage in the atmosphere for over three months from the synthesis (see Section S2, Supporting Information). When excited by a continuous-wave laser (350 nm, indicated by an arrow in Figure  1b ), a striking visual representation demonstrates the red PL emission observable to the naked eye. A high magnification transmission electron microscopy (TEM) micrograph in Figure  1c  reveals the QDs synthesized in ODE, showcasing typical FAPI QDs with a size of 20 nm (size dispersion AE3 nm). The crystalline structure of the QDs is evident, highlighting diffraction fringes from the (002) family of crystal planes of the cubic perovskite phase (α-FAPbI 3 QDs). Furthermore, to produce high-quality films, the same purification processes used for ODE were applied to replace the oleate and oleylammonium ligands. This process included two wash/ redispersion steps with methyl acetate and MeOAc/toluene solutions, along with a 12-h freezing period followed by centrifugation at a lower speed to eliminate excess oleyl species and agglomerates. The resulting colloid was then dried, redispersed in octane, and spin-coated in a layer-by-layer fashion to produce smooth films, following a protocol established by various studies with minor variations.  [5, 12, 17]  Each layer was exposed then to MeOAc for 10 s to attain a higher degree of LE, resulting in the fabrication of smooth, thick films whose thickness can be controlled by the number of layers deposited. Figure  1d  shows a plot of the thickness obtained in the function of the number of layers deposited, and in the inset, there are pictures of each sample from which the optical thickness and smoothness can be appreciated by the eye. The thickest sample that we were able to achieve without compromising the optical quality was extending up to 600 nm for 10 successive layer depositions. It must be noted that spin coating has been performed in an open atmosphere, without any consideration for ambient humidity, and the resulting films do not show any measurable difference with respect to the ODE counterparts; that is, starting with colloids of the same concentration (60 mg mL À1 ), the same number of spin coating steps produces layers of the same thickness and roughness. The sample thickness and roughness as in Figure  1d  are estimated through profilometry, of which example measurements and more detail of the analysis can be found in Section S1, Supporting Information. In addition, in Section S2, Supporting Information, it is possible to find comparative photographs of the colloids and films, showing their stability toward exposure to the atmosphere for over three months. UV LASER (a) (b) (d) (c) 
 Room Temperature Optical Properties of FAPbI 3 QDs Photoluminescence emission studies were carried out using a spectrofluorometer (Horiba FluoroMax-4) to compare the optical properties of the two variants of PeQDs in two different forms, either dispersed in a dilute hexane solution or as spin-coated films of stacked QDs on a quartz substrate. In both cases (see Figure  2a ,b), a distinct PL emission peak is observed with emission maxima at energies between 1.58 and 1.60 eV when excited with 350 nm wavelength. These values are consistent with the creation of FAPbI 3 nanocrystals measuring 17-23 nm in the cubic perovskite phase. The crystallinity and size dispersion for the QDs have been confirmed with TEM for the ODE samples (see micrograph in Figure  1c ). The PL measurements indicated minimal variations between the two types of samples in their colloidal state, with only a slight 6 meV redshift in the maximum peak energy (as shown in Figure  2a ). Interestingly, the opposite trend is observed in spin-coated films, where a blueshift in the maximum emission energy is evident (see Figure  2b ). Unexpectedly though, for both solvent-based synthesis, a blueshift is observed after spin coating on quartz, with the effect being more prominent in the OCE sample. This is in contrast with findings from other studies;  [18]  for example, according to Fang et al. the redshift in PL emission in the coated films results from increased energy transfer between neighboring particles. Nevertheless, it is difficult to draw an objective comparison as their study does not specify if the films were drop-cast or spin-coated or whether any LE steps were involved. These findings stress the need to include a detailed description of the synthesis and post-synthesis treatments for colloidal PeQDs. (a) (b) (c) (d) Ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) absorption spectra of the films were also obtained in this context using a spectrophotometer equipped with an integrating sphere. The Tauc plot analysis shown in Figure  2c  (see Figure  S3 , Supporting Information, for light absorption profiles) revealed that the absorption edges match direct band-to-band transitions for both samples, resulting in extrapolated bandgap values of 1.61 eV. The lack of excitonic features in the absorption edge and the direct nature of the optical transition involved combined with the calculated energy bandgaps corroborate the condition of weak quantum confinement for these samples (bulk film bandgap is 1.48-1.51 eV) as it has been already reported in literature for similar particles.  [16, 19]  The practically identical absorption edge and similar PL spectra between OCE-synthesized and ODE-synthesized QDs strongly suggest that their size and size distribution are similar. The expectation regarding the size consistency is supported by several key factors that warrant further elaboration. In fact, the relationship between the optical absorption edge and the size of FAPbI 3 QDs highlights a clear correlation between the position of the absorption edge and particle size.  [20]  Furthermore, if the variation of the optical properties is due to quantum confinement, larger nanoparticles exhibit redshifted absorbance and PL spectra of a larger magnitude (tens of meV per nm in the case of FAPbI 3 ). The small difference in PL emission spectra (6 meV) observed in our study cannot account for a significant size difference (e.g., using effective medium approximation calculations).  [20, 21]  Significant shape variations in our QDs would cause more pronounced changes in the PL spectrum than we observed. For example, Protesescu et al.  [16]  showed that nanosheets have a PL maximum at 590 nm, whereas cubic QDs have a maximum at 770 nm, a difference of about 0.5 eV. Additionally, deviations from the alpha phase to the stable non-perovskite δ-phase (indirect bandgap of 2.4 eV)  [22]  would result in poor absorption and emission properties, unlike our findings. Such deviations would also significantly alter the absorption and PL spectra, which we did not observe. Minor variations in PL from different crystalline orientations do not imply differences in average particle size. Thus, our data support the similarity in sizes of QDs synthesized using OCE and ODE. Our understanding of previous research in the field and our observations suggest that the magnitude of variations in PL between ODE-and OCE-synthesized QDs is more likely due to differences in the ligand environment rather than size variations. The ligand environment surrounding QDs plays a crucial role in their electronic structure and surface properties, influencing their optical properties such as PL emission wavelength and intensity.  [11]  This rationale provides a clear understanding of why we anticipate the size of OCE-synthesized QDs to remain relatively unchanged compared to ODEsynthesized QDs, despite the potential differences in their ligand environments. Additionally, we conducted PL QY measurements on thin films using an integrating sphere attachment and appropriate filters for the spectrofluorometer. Surprisingly, we found a remarkable 22% enhancement in the average PL QY for the QDs produced with OCE compared to the ODE samples (see Figure  2d ), resulting in an average PL QY value of 84%. For QDs synthesized in ODE, the value of QY matches surprisingly well with the one reported in the literature,  [16]  even though there are not many studies about it in function of the LE protocols. To the author's knowledge, the measured absolute PL QY for OCE samples is the highest measured for films of FAPbI 3 QDs. To investigate potential variations in ligand density and composition, we conducted Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analysis of the spin-coated films (Figure  S4 , Supporting Information). There is weak evidence of a smaller ligand density associated to surface-bound oleate and oleylammonium groups in favor of carboxylate groups which can originate from the LE with MeOAc in the case of octane synthesis. This fact suggests that, at least partially, the synthesis in OCE results in a more efficient LE at some stage of the purification. ODE is primarily considered a high-boiling point liquid support for the hot injection reactions, with no inherent capacity to dissolve the precursors or bind at the nanoparticle surfaces. Nevertheless, it is not uncommon for trace amounts of ODE to persist in the colloid, even after undergoing two cycles of purification.  [12]  On the other hand, OCE, being a shorter-chain molecule, is anticipated to possess higher solubility in toluene. Consequently, we speculate that the second purification step could be more efficient in eliminating any remaining OCE residue, thereby facilitating a more effective LE process. 
 Temperature-Dependent PL of FAPbI 3 QDs Thin Films In this experiment, we conducted PL spectroscopy across a temperature range spanning from liquid helium temperature up to room temperature (15-300 K), with the samples enclosed in a vacuum chamber. The PL emission was excited with a 350 nm wavelength light source. As illustrated in the contour plots in Figure  3a  and b, no additional emission peaks were observed within the region of interest at cryogenic temperatures, yet the behavior of the two samples differed noticeably in function of temperature. At 15 K, the emission peaks display a significant deviation from those recorded at room temperature. In both cases, these peaks were more intense and narrower and exhibited a redshift in comparison to the room temperature peaks with decreasing temperatures. This behavior, contrary to what is observed in conventional semiconductors,  [23, 24]  is a common phenomenon observed in hybrid lead iodide both in bulk forms  [25] [26] [27]  and nanocrystals.  [18, 25, [28] [29] [30]  The increase of the energy bandgap for higher temperatures can be explained as a combined effect of electron-phonon renormalization and lattice thermal expansion, resulting in the pinning of the valence band maximum with increasing temperature.  [26]  While the peak blueshifts as the temperature approaches room temperature, the PL maxima never fully recover to their initial values after exposure to vacuum and liquid helium temperatures. Error bars represent combined uncertainties on the measurements and errors on the fits. Lines in d and e) are best fits of Equation (  1 ) and (2), respectively. f ) Diagram of the lowest exciton energy level and effect of coupling: in blue, the levels for isolated particles, which represent the ODE case. In red, the splitting of energy levels relative to exciton wave functions with different symmetry relative to a dimer of coupled quantum dots. 
 Exciton Energy Levels Isolated In Figure  3c, d , the results of fitting the spectra at all temperatures with Gaussian functions are shown. In both cases, there was a slight redshift observed at very low temperatures (T < 30 K for ODE and T < 50 K for OCE), along with indications of more complex behavior at 200 K (highlighted by arrows in Figure  3c ). A similar complex behavior has been observed in films of MAPbI 3 and FAPbI 3 and attributed to the formation of disordered subdomains within the crystals.  [28]  Interestingly, the temperatures and characteristics of these phase transitions are highly dependent on the organic cation involved.  [26]  Both types of specimens synthesized using different solvents exhibit similar trends. However, OCE-based QDs display more pronounced variations in emission energy (Figure  3c ) and peak width (Figure  3d ) compared to their ODE-based counterparts. Specifically, the emission peak at 15 K exhibited a 16 meV shift for the ODE sample and a 46 meV shift for the OCE sample compared to their room temperature counterparts (as shown in Figure  3c ). Additionally, the linewidth exhibited smaller absolute values at all temperatures, with more significant changes as the temperature varied (as depicted in Figure  3d ). At T < 85 K, the OCE sample's linewidth remained nearly temperature-independent, while ODE showed a weak linear dependence throughout the whole temperature range. The more pronounced redshift with smaller linewidths in the OCE samples may be an optical signature of superradiance, where exciton states become delocalized across multiple QDs due to stronger dipole coupling between neighboring QDs.  [30]  This phenomenon could also explain the higher PL QY measured for the films. The examination of PL linewidth with respect to temperature has been extensively employed in the literature across various inorganic semiconductors to evaluate the influence of diverse mechanisms on electron-phonon coupling (Figure  3d ). Indeed, distinct functional dependencies of linewidth on temperature emerge due to different scattering pathways involving phonons and impurities.  [31]  In general, we write the linewidth as the sum of different contributions as in Equation (  1 )  [18, [28] [29] [30]  Γ T ð Þ ¼ Γ 0 þ σ AC T þ Γ LO e E LO k B T À 1 (1) where Γ 0 is the temperature-independent inhomogeneous broadening, σ AC and Γ LO are the acoustic and longitudinal optical phonon coupling coefficients, respectively, E LO is the energy of the longitudinal optical phonon mode, and k B is the Boltzmann constant. Where we assumed the longitudinal optical phonon population to follow a Bose-Einstein distribution in function of temperature. The result of the fitting is presented in Table  1 . In general, the results reveal that the contribution of acoustic phonon modes (σ AC ) to the PL linewidth is negligible, and the values of E LO are consistent with previous studies for FAPI films and nanocrystal ensembles.  [18, 25, 32]  However, Γ LO is somewhat smaller than the reported values. Despite the fact that the FAPbI 3 lattice has multiple optical phonon modes, the data are a better fit considering the contribution of a single mode, so the parameters should be interpreted as effective values.  [25, 28, 32]  Between the two sets of samples, we observe that the OCE sample has lower coupling coefficients and particularly lower inhomogeneous broadening, which seems to be the primary factor responsible for the narrower absolute linewidths at all temperatures. The inhomogeneous broadening term can be related to static disorder, size distribution, or the presence of impurities and defects in the sample. As already been noted, the PL linewidth of films of the two kinds at room temperature is equal, and only the ODE sample recovers to the same value after exposure to cryogenic temperature, while the OCE sample emission is sharper than the initial one. For these reasons, we believe that the discrepancy in linewidth at lower temperatures is to be a film with less radiatively active defects and adsorbates, rather than a smoother film or a different size distribution of the particles at synthesis. The intensity of PL emission peaks as a function of temperature (Figure  3e ) can also give valuable information on the temperature-induced mechanisms of photocarrier relaxation.  [29]  In general, a decreasing intensity of the peaks with temperature is observed for both samples, but notably, the PL decay with increasing temperature is faster for the OCE sample compared to the ODE one. For hybrid PeQDs, the variation in PL intensity can depend on three factors that have different trends with temperature: the thermal dissociation of excitons, the activation of trap-related states, and the thermal escape of carriers due to electron-phonon scattering.  [29]  However, the spectra of our samples can be better fitted by considering only the thermal dissociation of excitons as in the following Equation (  2 ) I T ð Þ ¼ I 0 1 þ e À E b k B T ( 2 ) where I 0 is the intensity extrapolated at T = 0 K and E b is the exciton binding energy. Using this approach, we estimate a lower exciton binding energy of 26.4 AE 0.8 meV for the OCE sample, compared to 33.3 AE 2.3 meV for the ODE sample. The fitting of our spectra shows then that the binding energy of excitons in the OCE samples is smaller than the ODE sample. These values are consistent with a weak quantum confinement regime, where the k B T contribution at room temperature is already able to dissociate excitons, thereby explaining the absence of excitonic feature in the optical absorption spectra. In fact, in general, the exciton binding energies observed in hybrid organic/inorganic perovskites are known to exhibit notably low values. For example, for bulk FAPbI 3 perovskite, the exciton binding energy has been measured at around 15 meV.  [33]  Hence, our QDs demonstrate a higher exciton binding energy, showcasing a distinct behavior due to quantum confinement effects within the nanostructure. A more efficient LE could indeed be at the origin of the difference between ODE and OCE with respect to exciton binding energy in two different ways: i) at the single particle level, assuming we can describe excitons in this materials as bound e-h pairs, the Coulomb interaction depends on the size-dependent dielectric constant of the material, which can be modified by the presence of insulating capping ligands  [34, 35]  ; and ii) at the particles ensemble level, by altering the dielectric environment around the particles, the excitons can feel a dipole-dipole interaction between neighboring particles.  [36]  The second mechanism in particular would also explain the emission energy difference at lower temperature for QD films, where excitons have a longer lifetime. The superfluorescence resulting from dipolar interaction between neighboring QDs has been observed for CsPbI 3 QDs superlattices.  [30, 37, 38]  While for an isolated cubic PeQD, the lowest laying exciton energy level is a bright triplet; however, QDs can interact via a dipole-dipole interaction, whose potential can be expressed by Equation (  3 ) V dÀd ¼ 2μ 2 εR 3 ( 3 ) where μ is the transition dipole, ε is the dielectric constant, and R is the distance between QDs and has been estimated to be around 16 meV for CsPbI 3 QDs 12 nm apart.  [30]  In the course of this study, the interparticle distance within the film has not been measured. However, these QDs produced via hot injection are renowned for their ability to self-assemble into superlattices during solvent evaporation; however, the long insulating ligands can easily screen exciton interaction between particles (higher ε in Equation (  3 )). The reduced density of long insulating ligands for films with OCE QDs could allow for superradiance to take place.  [30, 38, 39]  Figure  3f  presents a schematic illustrating the involved energy levels. The blue exciton levels depict the scenario for isolated particles (as in ODE). Electronically coupled QDs undergo dipole-dipole interactions, causing the ground exciton level to split into two levels of different symmetry (depicted in red in Figure  3c ). The lowest energy level for the QD dimer shifts by a factor of two times the dipole-dipole potential (V dÀd ). The observed PL linewidth difference at low temperature (≈25 meV) is similar to this energy difference. Consequently, particles produced with ODE act more like isolated QDs due to ligand screening, while OCE-produced particles exhibit PL emission from coupled excitons. Additionally, attributing the temperature-dependent PL characteristics to QD dimers may clarify both the weaker electron-phonon coupling and the higher PL QY associated with OCE-produced particles. These effects arise from the averaging out of interparticle defects and impurities from a more extended di-exciton wave function. 
 Transport Properties and Solar Cells Following that, we examined the impact of the synthesis pathway of FAPbI 3 QDs on the transport properties of the films. In our analysis of these transport properties, we constructed thin-film solar cells with absorber layers comprising FAPbI 3 QDs, with thicknesses ranging from 100 (AE15) to 200 (AE20) nm manufactured in an open atmosphere to show the superior resistance to humidity offered by FAPbI 3 QDs with respect to the bulk crystalline films. Specifically, we investigated two types of QDs: ODEbased QDs, denoted as "QD1," and OCE-based QDs, denoted as "QD2". The overall structure of these solar cells is depicted in Figure  4a , consisting of the following layers: indium tin oxide-coated glass as the transparent electrode, SnO 2 as the electron transport layer, spin-coated layers of QDs as the main light absorbers, spiro-OMeTAD as the hole transport layer, and a thin layer of Au as the top contact (details of device manufacturing in S1, Supporting Information). A band diagram is presented in Figure  4b  using values found in recent photoemission studies  [19]  and the bandgap that we measured with UV-vis spectrophotometry. This shows that the FAPbI 3 QDs layer allows for electrons to flow but is energetically not favorable for holes that see a small energy barrier at the interface with spiro-OMeTAD. The devices show remarkable performance improvements when using OCE samples, and we can gain some useful insight by observing how the parameters change with thickness. We conducted measurements of their current-voltage (IV) characteristics under 1 sun illumination with 1.5 AM (air mass) conditions. A statistical analysis of the results is presented in Figure  4c -f. Remarkably, despite the suboptimal film thickness, the 200 nm thick OCEbased samples (depicted in red in Figure  4c -f ) achieved an outstanding PCE of 6.7%, along with a V OC of 1 V and a J SC of 14 mA cm À2 . On average, the IV characteristics exhibited improvements compared to the ODE-based samples (depicted in gray in Figure  4c -f ) for both thicknesses considered. In particular, for a 100 nm thickness, the short-circuit current ( J SC , Figure  4d ) is nearly doubled in the case of OCE, while the open-circuit voltage (V OC , Figure  4e ) shows roughly a 15% increase. The FF (Figure  4f  ) instead experiences a significant decline in comparison to the ODE samples. By a twofold increase in thickness (at 200 nm), the same trends are observed, albeit in a slightly weaker proportion, as J SC increases by 1.5 times and V OC by 10%; however, the FF declines even more. Among samples of the same kind, the tendencies are similar with increased layer thickness: a significant J SC increase, almost constant V OC , and declining FF. The PCE follows the same trends of the shortcircuit current, both in function of the thickness and between QDs synthesized with different solvents. Given the interpretation of temperature-dependent PL, the enhanced performance of solar cells based on OCE-synthesized FAPbI 3 QDs can be attributed to the synergistic combination of several critical factors, which collectively lead to remarkable improvements in V OC , J SC , and overall PCE. One of the pivotal factors is the quality of the LE process which promotes strong binding between the QDs and their ligands which increased conductivity across the films.  [40]  In fact, transport in this kind of QD solids depends strongly on the ligands involved, and it can vary from a "hopping style" if the interdot ligands are long and insulating, acting as energy barriers, to almost band-like conduction when the QDs are monodispersed in size, tend to assemble in superlattices, and are strongly coupled by short ligands.  [41]  The LE process though can also introduce defect states, which can act as recombination centers and would bring the loss of photocarriers, which would be reflected in a smaller short-circuit current.  [42]  The evidence we collected so far suggests that films of QDs obtained in OCE show improved LE without introducing defect states, as solar cells display in general a larger collection current. Also, a lower degree of quantum confinement, as calculated through the fitting of temperature-dependent PL spectra intensity, can also partially explain the improved currents. In fact, excitons have shorter lifetimes and are more efficiently separated, decreasing the chance for recombination and scattering with photons (thermalization). Despite the non-optimized conditions both for the thickness and the energy alignment of solar cells, which could make the reader think the performance is poor in absolute values, our study presents compelling findings that showcase, for OCE-based QDs solar cells, similar or even superior performance metrics compared to 250 nm FAPbI 3 QDs cells treated with similar LE procedures (e.g., Xu et al.  [43]  Figure  S12 -S14, Supporting Information). These results underscore the potential of our approach and highlight the effectiveness of utilizing OCE in the LE process.  However, amid these promising outcomes, our study also revealed a notable drawback in the form of a lower FF. The FF of a solar cell is a crucial parameter indicating its quality and performance. A decrease in the FF can be attributed to several reasons.  [44]  In the case of OCE, the primary cause is most likely poor electrical contacts due to the absence of adequate QDs passivation, which disrupts charge carrier paths. Consequently, higher series resistance reduces the current flowing through the cell, lowering the FF. Another factor is shunt resistance, caused by defects, impurities, and leakage paths in the film. However, our film showed very similar properties (Figure  S2 , Supporting Information), indicating that this is unlikely the primary reason since, in the case of OCE, we did not observe a reduction in voltage; instead, there was a slight improvement pointing out efficient LE process. Additional factors that contributed to the decreased FF in the case of OCE include higher recombination losses and surface passivation issues. Increased recombination of charge carriers (electrons and holes) reduces the current, impacting the FF. Poor surface passivation leads to increased surface recombination velocities, reducing effective carrier collection and lowering the FF. Temperature-dependent PL analysis and electrical characterization of solar cells suggest a higher concentration of non-radiative defects resulting from a more efficient LE process in the absence of adequate passivation. Despite the increased density of non-radiative defects, the enhanced transport of carriers resulting from a more efficient LE within the OCE samples may partially offset these losses, explaining the enhancement observed J SC and V OC compared to QD solar cells synthesized with ODE and better overall PCE. We imply that OCE QD films have a higher proportion of non-radiatively active defects, causing recombination losses in solar cells. However, a lower proportion of radiative recombination centers results in a higher PL QY. This suggests that OCE mainly affects the LE process, potentially increasing the density of non-radiatively active defects without proper passivation. This interplay between defect states, carrier transport, and recombination processes underscores the complexity of device performance and highlights the need for further experiments to understand the physics and devise tailored strategies to mitigate losses and optimize efficiency. 
 Summary In summary, we successfully synthesized FAPbI 3 QDs of consistent size and room temperature PL peak by substituting ODE with OCE as the supporting solvent at the same injection temperature. However, this modification in the synthesis process led to spin-coated films with distinct low-temperature PL characteristics and, notably, an enhanced PL QY of 84% for OCE-based processing. Our exploration of temperature-dependent PL measurements and FTIR collectively suggests that employing OCE in the synthesis process facilitates a more effective LE, resulting in superior transport properties compared to their ODE-based counterparts. The PCE of OCE QD-based solar cells surpasses that of standard ODE processing, primarily owing to their higher current density and open-circuit voltage. Despite experiencing a decrease in FF and displaying nonideal behavior in comparison, the overall PCE still outperforms the best reported in the literature for similar thicknesses and non-optimized designs. The consistent improvements of solar cells for different layer thicknesses corroborate the superior transport properties of the films obtained with the novel method. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. a) Colloid synthesized in octene and strongly diluted with hexane to show photoluminescence (PL) emission and b) relative photo showing the naked eye visible red PL emission when excited by an ultraviolet laser (350 nm, indicated by arrow). c) High magnification transmission electron microscopy micrograph of quantum dots (QDs) synthesized in octadecene at the same injection temperature showing a typical QD with a size of 20 nm and showing diffraction contrast from (002) planes of α-FAPbI 3 phase. d) Scatter plot and linear fit of measured film thickness in function of the number of layers coated on a quartz substrate, with error bars representing the average roughness of the samples. The inset shows a picture of the films relative to each data point in ascending order of thickness. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. Comparison of normalized photoluminescence (PL) emission of formamidinium lead triiodide quantum dots produced with different solvents: a) diluted colloids in hexane, showing a small redshift in the octene (OCE) case, and b) spin-coated on quartz substrates, showing a small blueshift in the OCE case. The excitation wavelength is 350 nm. c) Tauc plots of absorption spectra assuming a direct band-to-band transitions for the absorption edges, showing equal values of bandgap for the two samples. d) Results of the photoluminescence quantum yield measurements of 100 AE 15 nm thick films, showing superior characteristics of the OCE method. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Contour plots showing photoluminescence spectra taken at different temperatures for a) the octadecene (ODE) sample and b) the octene (OCE) sample, showing different shapes of the emission peak in function of temperature. c) Maximum peak energy, d) FMWH and e) intensity of Gaussian fits of emission spectra at each temperature, revealing stronger redshifting and sharpening of OCE sample emission spectra at low T.Error bars represent combined uncertainties on the measurements and errors on the fits. Lines in d and e) are best fits of Equation (1) and (2), respectively. f ) Diagram of the lowest exciton energy level and effect of coupling: in blue, the levels for isolated particles, which represent the ODE case. In red, the splitting of energy levels relative to exciton wave functions with different symmetry relative to a dimer of coupled quantum dots. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) Diagram showing the composition of the layered structure making the quantum dots (QD)-based solar cells. b) band diagram from photoemission studies. Statistics of solar cell parameters extrapolated from IV measurements of solar cells of the different types of QDs (gray octadecene, red octene) and for two QD film thickness values (100 nm on the left of the dashed line, 200 nm on the right). c) Power conversion efficiency, d) short-circuit current, e) open-circuit voltage, and f ) fill factor. 
 Table 1 . 1 Parameters extracted from the fitting of the photoluminescence emission full width at half aximum for each temperature value with Equation (1), with errors representing standard error on the fit. Sample Γ 0 σ AC [meV K À1 ] Γ LO [meV] E LO [meV] ODE 109.8 AE 0.4 0.025 AE 0.08 28 AE 5 1 8 AE 7 OCE 87.4 AE 0.3 0.016 AE 0.09 23 AE 4 1 9 AE 2 
			 Sol. RRL 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (4 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (5 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. RRL 2024, 8, 2400379 
			 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (7 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. RRL 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (8 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. RRL 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (9 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Sol. RRL 2024, 8, 2400379 2400379 (10 of 10) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2367198x, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/solr.202400379 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
Paper #: 16840_2
Title: Correlation between photoluminescence features and enhanced performance in FAPbI 3 quantum dot solar cells by replacement of Octadecene
Materials for synthesis and purification 1-Octadecene (technical grade, 90% Sigma-Aldrich), Oleic Acid (technical grade, 90% Sigma-Aldrich), Formamidine Acetate (>98%, TCI chemicals), Oleylamine (technical grade, 70% Sigma-Aldrich), Lead Iodide (99.99% trace metal basis, TCI chemicals), 1-Octene (98%, Sigma-Aldrich), Methyl Acetate (anhydrous, 99.5% Sigma-Aldrich), Ethyl Acetate (anhydrous, 99.8% Sigma-Aldrich), Acetonitrile (anhydrous, 99.8% Sigma-Aldrich), Toluene (anhydrous, 99.8% Sigma-Aldrich), Hexane (anhydrous, 95%), Octane (anhydrous, ≥99% Sigma-Aldrich). 
 Preparation of FA-Oleate After drying Octadecene, Oleic acid and Oleylamine in a vacuum furnace for 1h at 100 °C, a formamidine oleate solution is prepared by dissolving 260 mg of Formamidine Acetate in 5 mL of dry Oleic Acid. This is achieved in a three-neck flask after 1h of degassing at 50 °C in vacuum followed by heating in N2 atmosphere up to 130 °C in a heating mantle under vigorous stirring, the solution first turns clear and then acquires a light-yellow hue. This FA-oleate solution is kept at 90 °C for further use.
Synthesis of ODE-based FAPI QDs Typically, 0.57 mmol (344 mg) of PbI2 and 20 mL of dry ODE are added to a three-neck flask and let degas in vacuum for 1h at 120 °C. Successively 4 mL of dry Oleic Acid and 2 mL of dry Oleylamine are injected in the flask, turning the solution clear and bright yellow. When the salt is fully dissolved Nitrogen gas is introduced and let the solution cool to 80 °C. At this point 5mL of the FA-Oleate stock solution are quickly injected, provoking the quick nucleation of FAPI particles, and turning the solution very thick and dark brown. After 5-10 seconds of stirring, the flask is quickly transferred to an icy water bath for fast quenching. The colloids went through the same purification steps as described for Octene-based process in the main text. 
 Synthesis of OCE-based FAPI QDs The standard hot injection process employing Octene instead of Octadecene begins with the addition of 0.57 mmol (344 mg) of PbI2 and 40/50 mL of Octene to a three-neck flask. The mixture is stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere for 30 minutes at 100 °C. Subsequently, 4 mL of dry Oleic Acid and 2 mL of dry Oleylamine are injected into the flask, resulting in a clear and bright yellow solution. Once the lead salt is fully dissolved, the solution is allowed to cool down to 80 °C and evaporate, reducing the volume to approximately 25 mL. At this point, 5 mL of the pre-heated FA-Oleate stock solution is rapidly injected, causing the solution to become thick and dark brown, similar to the process with Octadecene. The solution is quickly cooled down in an ice water bath after 5 seconds of stirring. Compared to the Octadecene process, Octene tends to evaporate more quickly due to its lower boiling point as a solvent. To compensate for these evaporative losses, an initial excess of the solvent (40/50 mL instead of 20 mL) is used. Additionally, evaporative cooling can slightly impede precise temperature control, which is critical for achieving uniform particle size and size dispersion. Despite these challenges, we have successfully synthesized particles with highly similar photoluminescence emission characteristics by injecting the FA-Oleate solution at the same temperature as the process with ODE. For solar cell applications, it is necessary to replace the long insulating capping ligands from the as-synthesized particles. This purification process involves several steps, both in liquid form and during thin film deposition. The as-prepared colloidal solutions are diluted with an equal volume of Methyl Acetate and centrifuged at 8kRPM for 30 minutes. The colorless supernatant is discarded, and the precipitate is redispersed in a solution of Toluene and MeOAc (in a 9:10 ratio in volumes) for further washing. The resulting solutions undergo a second centrifugation at 8kRPM for 10 minutes, after which the precipitate is redispersed in Hexane and kept at 0 °C for at least 12 hours to remove excess oleyl species. After the freezing stage, the solutions are centrifuged at 7.5kRPM for 5 minutes, and the precipitate is discarded. The resulting colloid is dried and redispersed in anhydrous Octane to achieve the desired thickness for spin coating, with a concentration of approximately 70 mg/mL. This thick and stable colloid is used to spin-coat smooth films in a layer-by-layer fashion. 
 Coating and device fabrication An ITO patterned glass (5 ±1 Ω/sq., thickness 300 ± 20 nm) serving as the top contact has been cleaned in 4 steps respectively with a soap solution (2% Helmanex in DI water), DI water, acetone, and ethanol. Next it was subject to a UV-Ozone treatment for 20 minutes to improve the wettability of the surface. A SnO2 nanoparticle colloidal solution (Alfa Aesar, 15% in DI water) was diluted with deionized water to 7.5%, and then 300 μL of the solution was spin coated (2000 rpm for 30 s) onto the ITO patterned glass, followed by annealing at 150 °C on a hot plate in dry air for 1 h to obtain an electron transport layer. The substrates were then treated with UV-ozone again for 10 min before coating with the Perovskite colloidal solution. FAPI QDs colloidal solution was spin coated in a layer-by-layer fashion to allow for ligand exchange process to take place. For each layer 50 μL of colloidal solution were spun onto the substrates, at 1000 rpm for 15 seconds followed by 5 seconds at 2000 rpm. Then ethyl acetate was dropped for 8 to 10 seconds onto the substrates, that would then be spun at 2000 rpm to dry up the layer. The process can be repeated to add up approximately 100 nm of film for every step, and at the last layer an additional washing with Ethyl Acetate was performed. Samples for optical spectroscopies follow the same routine, but with Quartz as a substrate and Silicon wafers for FTIR. The hole transport layer was prepared by dissolving 69 mg of spiro-MeOTAD (Nippon Seika) in 1 mL of chlorobenzene (Acros, 99.8%, Extra Dry, Acroseal). The spiro-MeOTAD solution was doped by adding 14 μL of Li-TFSI (574 mg/mL in anhydrous acetonitrile) and 27.1 μL of 4-tert-butylpyridine to the spiro-MeOTAD solution. The solution was shaken at room temperature for 3 h prior to use. An amount of 300 μL of the doped spiro-MeOTAD solution was pipetted onto the substrate and spun at 4000 rpm for 30 s. Finally, a thin layer of Au is thermally evaporated through a mask to make the bottom contacts. 
 Characterization of the Photovoltaic Performance Solar cell IV: AM1.5G solar spectrum was generated using a Bunkoukeiki Co.,Ltd solar simulator (Model XCS-300A). The AM1.5 was calibrated against a Silicon reference solar cell (WPVS NP3-S1). Devices were masked using a black shadow mask which defined an active area of 0.2275 cm 2 . The J-V parameters were recorded using a Keithley 2400 source meter in the voltage range from -0.1 to 1.9 V with a scan rate of 0.1 V/s. 
 Measurements of thickness The thickness of layers was measured with a Bruker DektakXT profiler, which obtains the height topography by scanning a micro-tip along a straight line and recording the z-displacement of the tip. We expose the substrate upon scratching the spin-coated layer in straight lines and measure along a direction perpendicular to the scratches. Measurements are repeated in 4 or 5 different parts of the substrates, with linescans crossing 1 or 2 parallel scratches. In figure S1a some single profile measurements for each sample of figure  1  in the main text are shown. The lower levels where the scratchings have removed material are taken as the baseline of the measurement. This kind of measurement is affected by systematic errors due to imperfect material removal during the scratching and the carryover of residues accumulated by the tip, however by plotting a histogram of values frequency count (figure  S1b ), the most frequent values pertain to the quantities we are interested in. We fit the baseline and the most frequent value with Gaussian distributions, take the difference between centers values as the height for each profile and the squared sum of the std. deviations of the distribution as roughness. We then average these values for 4 profiles for each sample and obtain the values plotted in figure  1  in the main text.  
 S2. Stability of OCE colloid and films In figure  S2  evidence of the stability of the colloidal and film forms of OCE samples is shown, by comparing as synthesized samples and others stored in atmosphere for over three months (102 days). In panel a a concentrated colloid of the samples synthesized in Octene, showing only some some agglomerated particles on the walls of the vial, however keeping the same thickness over time. In panels b and c instead, a comparison between ODE and OCE samples respectively is shown. In these pictures the left sample is freshly coated, while the right one is sample coated over three months in advance and stored in a plastic box exposed to the lab environment. It is possible to note that, while both of the samples keep their overall color and thickness, the ODE samples show the appearance of discoloration spots after the storage period, while the OCE ones do not.  
 S3. Absorption spectra Light absorption was estimed by measuring transmittance and reflectance with a PerkinElmer Lambda 950 equipped with a 15 cm integrating sphere. Absorbance was then calculated by correcting the transmittance for the reflectance component. The spectra display simple, gradual absorption edges without distinct excitonic features in both the Octadecene and the Octene case. Beyond the absorption edge, it becomes evident that the FAPbI3 QDs layer treated with Octene exhibits stronger light absorption beyond the absorption edge, despite having the same film thickness (100 nm) and particles size. Moreover, visually the films look homogenous and smooth throughout the substrate, hence we propose a hypothesis suggesting that the dissimilarity in absorption can be attributed to differences in film compactness, resulting in variations in optical density. After the analysis of FTIR spectra of the two kinds of samples (section S4), we infer that Octene's utilization leads to a more efficient ligand exchange process compared to Octadecene. This can foster a denser packing of QDs within the film, subsequently boosting optical absorption without altering the physical thickness of the film. For example, Kim B.S. et al. found similar relationships between ligand exchange efficiency, film compactness, and optical absorptio for PbS QDs.  [1]    
 S4. FTIR of ligand composition To assess potential disparities in the surface ligands between the two distinct types of quantum dots, we conducted Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) measurements on films that were spin-coated onto silicon wafer substrates. These films underwent the same ligand exchange procedure with methyl acetate, as needed for solar cells. Figure  S4  illustrates the resulting spectra. Within the spectra, we can easily discern peaks corresponding to the vibrational modes of oleyl groups (υ(C-Hx) between 2780 ÷ 3000 cm -1 , υ(C-H2) at 1466 cm -1 , and υ(C=C-H) at 3005 cm -1 ). However, unequivocally attributing these peaks to specific species proves challenging, as they could be due to unbound species such as oleylamine (OAm), oleic acid (OA), octadecene (ODE), or octene (OCE), as well as from bound species like oleylammonium (OAm + ) or oleate (OA -) groups. Also, the peak at 1710 cm -1 and the peak structures in the range of 3270 cm -1 to 3410 cm -1 cans be associated with υ(C=N) and υ(C=N-H2 + ) moieties, respectively, which are indicative of vibrations from formamidinium ions (FA + ) and bound oleylammonium (OAm + ) species. Additionally, we observe two distinctive peaks at 1409 cm -1 and 1530 cm -1 , which can be linked to symmetric and Wavenumber (cm -1 ) Octadecene Octene Transmittance (A.U.) COO - C-H 2 COO - C=N C-H x C=C-H N-H + 3 N-H x C-H 2 asymmetric stretching modes of carboxylate (COO -) groups. These carboxylate groups may either be associated with oleate ions adhering to the surface or residual carboxylate groups left behind after the Methyl acetate-induced ligand exchange. A shoulder peak expected to correspond to bound OAm + , specifically pertaining to the N-H3 + stretching mode at 3138 cm -1 , is also weakly discernible. Upon comparing the two spectra, a noteworthy discrepancy becomes evident in the region of N-Hx and C-Hx, together with a small variation of one of the peaks associated to COO - groups. The results support the idea that there is a slightly lower density of long ligands in the film, which are substituted by carboxylic groups from the ligand exchange process. 
 S5. IV characteristics In this section we present some exemplar current-voltage (IV) characteristics of quantum dot solar cells synthesized with different ligands and film thicknesses, relative to the results shown in the main text. Each panel represents a specific configuration of QD film thickness: 100 nm with ODE (panel a) or OCE (panel b), and 200 nm thickness with ODE (panel c) or OCE (panel d). The color scheme distinguishes between backward (red) and forward (black) scan directions, enabling an examination of the electrical behavior and the phenomena of interest in our study. While OCE sample show systematically higher JSC and VOC for the same film thickness, the IV characteristics reveal the presence of hysteresis (difference in performance for different voltage scan direction) and the concurrent existence of both series and shunt resistance that give rise to lower FF for OCE samples (panel b and d).  Figure Figure S1 -(a) Example profiles for each of the samples in figure 1 of the main text. It is possible to notice sometimes the presence of material in the scratching area taken as baseline (as in the 100 nm or the 200 nm samples) or materials carried over by the tip during the scanning across the steps (e.g.: sample 100). These systematic errors are taken care of by statistical means as in (b) by plotting the frequency count of measurement values and fitting the highest peaks with Gaussian distributions. 
 Figure S2 - S2 Figure S2 -Pictures of samples in colloidal form (a) OCE and films of (b) ODE QDs and (c) OCE QDs as synthesized (left) and stored in the lab atmosphere for 102 days (right), showing the stability of colloids and films of OCE over time. 
 Figure S3 - S3 Figure S3 -Absorption spectra of the two types of samples, showing higher absorbance in the near edge region for the OCE sample. 
 Figure S4 - S4 Figure S4 -FTIR Spectra of the two kinds of samples and relative peak assignment,2,7,8 showing significant differences in the range between 1400 and 1800 cm-1. 
 Figure S5 - S5 Figure S5 -IV Characteristics of Quantum Dot Solar Cells: Panel a) 100 nm-thick film of ODE QDs, b) 100 nm-thick film of OCE QDs, Panel c) 200 nm-thick film of ODE QDs, and d) 200 nm-thick film of OCE QDs. Red curves represent backward scans, while black ones represent forward scan.
