Paper #: 19513_1
Title: Interfacial defect passivation by multiple-effect molecule for efficient and stable perovskite solar cells
Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have attracted a lot of attention from researchers as the most promising photovoltaic devices due to their outstanding power conversion efficiency (PCE) and low-cost. Although the PSC have reached a PCE over 25%, the interface between the perovskite and hole transport layer (HTL) still is a crucial factor limiting higher PCE and long-term stability. In this work, we choose an organic molecule Bis(trifluoromethyl) benzo amide (BTFZA) to passivate defects at the perovskite/HTL interface. Owing to a strong interaction with uncoordinated Pb 2+ , the BTFZA effectively passivated the surface defects, remarkably promoted carrier transportation. As a result, the perovskite device based on BTFZA surface modification showed a PCE increase of 16.4% over the control device. Especially, the fill factor (FF) and the open-circuit voltage (V OC ) of the modified device increased significantly. In addition, the unencapsulated BTFZA-modified device maintains better PCE compared to the control device after aging for over 600 h in ambient air with extreme humidity and temperature conditions. Results suggested that the introduction of BTFZA is an effective way to regulate the surface of perovskite film aiming at highly efficient and stable perovskite solar cells.
Introduction Hybrid organic-inorganic perovskite solar cell (PSC) is the most promising photovoltaic device whose power conversion efficiency (PCE) increased from 3.8% to 25.7% over mere 15 years, rapidly reaching its theoretical Shockley-Queisser limit  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . Halide perovskites show broad absorption range of visible light, high carrier extraction and separation ability, adjustable optical band structure, with very low cost and easy fabrication process  [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] . However, Non-radiative carrier binding caused by defects still hindered the PCE of the PSCs. Surface defect of the hybrid perovskites, such as Pb 2+ and halide ions do not get coordinated, Pb-Pb dimers, and vacant sites of halide anions and A-site cations that may be present at the same time, would lead to the invasion of oxygen and moisture at ambient environment, in turn leading to the formation of lead oxide/hydroxide when exposed to air  [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] . This will gradually decompose the perovskite film, which is the direct cause of the deterioration of perovskite stability. Therefore, there is an urgent need to eliminate uncoordinated Pb 2+ ions and reduce defects by effective passivation strategies for the preparation of PSCs with high PCE and high stability. At present, the most of strategies are focused on further improving photovoltaic PCE and device stability by reducing grain boundaries, halide defects, ion defects and so on. Interfacial modification, taking advantage of different kinds of passivation materials, such as Lewis acid and base, small molecule organic or inorganic ionic salts, 2D perovskite materials, quantum dots, and so on  [5, [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] . has been widely used as an effective method for passivation. For instance，Li and coworkers introduced 1,3-bis(diphenylphosphino)propane (DPPP) on NiO x /PVK surface, and showed that phosphine-containing molecules have the strongest binding energy with perovskite surface, as a result, they obtained champion 23.9% PCE because of the bind between molecules and bind undercoordinated Pb 2+ at interfaces and grain boundaries (GBs)  [32] . You et al. applied phenethyl ammonium iodide (PEAI) on perovskite films to make carrier non-radiative bonding to be suppressed and voltage losses to be significantly reduced, with a certified efficiency of 23.32% in 2019  [33] . Gratzel et al. introduced 4-tert-bu-tyl-benzylammonium iodide (tBBAI) onto perovskite film through the one-step antisolvent method， increased the FF from 75% to 82%. This is mainly due to the extra I -fills the I -vacancies, reducing carrier non-radiative binding  [34] . The above research indicates that organic molecules with multiple function groups can act as good passivation agents for suppressing interfacial defects of perovskite films, thus achieving high efficiency and good stability for PSCs. In addition, it was previously reported that carbonyl groups are Lewis bases with lone electron pairs, which can form coordination bonds with undercoordinated Pb 2+ , and the amino groups form NH 3+ through protonation transfer, passivating surface defects in perovskite films. In addition, due to its strongest electronegativity, the fluorine atom interacts closely with the Pb 2+ and MA + /FA + ions in the form of hydrogen bonds. Unlike other organic small molecules modifying the interface of perovskite films, the benzene ring with the nature of a conjugated system and connecting different functional groups ensures that the conductivity of the interface is not affected while passivating the surface defects of perovskite films. In order to utilize all these benefits from various functional groups, we need to choose a small molecule that has all these active groups, and can act as a multifunctional passivation reagent  [29] [30] [31] . Therefore，in this work, difluoromethylene (BTFZA), a small molecule with multiple function groups, was applied onto perovskite/HTL interface to passivate interface defects. The passivation effect of BTFZA is manifested in high crystalline quality and larger the grain size. It caused strong interaction between uncoordinated Pb 2+ and the carbonyl (C--O), trifluoromethyl group (-CF 3 ) in BTFZA molecules. In the perovskite films, hydrogen bonding between BTFZA and MA+/FA + groups enhance the extraction and transport of photogenerated carriers. As a result, BTFZA-modified PSCs showed highest PCE of 19.85% which significantly exceeds the control device (17.06%). Moreover, the BTFZA-passivated PSCs exhibit improvements in stability compared to the reference device. 
 Experimental section Materials. The manufacturer of the tin dioxide colloidal precursor (tin (IV) oxide, 15% H2O colloidal dispersion) and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 99.8%) is Alfa Aesar. Sigma Aldrich's dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.8%) was used. The following materials were purchased from Xian Polymer Light Technology Corp., including Cesium iodide (CsI, 99.8%), Lead iodine (PbI 2 , 99.999%), formamidinium iodide (FAI, 99.8%), methylammonium bromide (MABr, 99.8%), methylammonium chloride (MACl, 99.8%), lithium bis(trifluoromethylsulphonyl) imide (LiTFSI), and FK209 Co (III) TFSI salt. Bi trifluoromethyl benzo amide (BTFZA) was purchased from Aladdin Co. 2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis [N, N-p-di (methoxy-phenyl) amino]-9,9-spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD, 99.8%), 4-tert-butylpyridine (4-TBP, 98%) and were purchased from You Xuan, Liaoning. Solar cell fabrication. Cleaning FTO glass use ethyl alcohol, deionized water, acetone and ethyl alcohol in turn. Before use, washing the FTO glass with UV ozone cleaner for 20 min. The SnO 2 nanoparticle film is then spin-coated onto the previously treated substrate (SnO 2: water = 1:4) at 4000 rpm for 30 s, and annealed at 150 • C for 30 min in ambient air. After cooling down to room temperature, the substrates were cleaned with UV ozone cleaner for 15 min to reduce organic matter on the SnO 2 surface. The perovskite precursor solution was prepared with 0.07 mmol CsI, 1.2 mmol FAI, 0.21 mmol MABr, 1.4 mmol PbI 2 , and 0.21 mmol PbBr 2 in 1 mL mixed anhydrous solvent (DMF: DMSO = 4: 1 in volume ratio). Then, the perovskite precursor solution was spincoated onto SnO 2 at 1000 and 5000 rpm for 10 and 30 s, respectively, in a N 2 glovebox. Then, chlorobenzene was applied on the spinning substrate slowly for 15 s prior to the end of the process. Then the wet perovskite film was annealed at 100 • C for 60 min on a hot plate. When the film temperature drops to the same as the room temperature, the Well-shaken BTFZA solution (0.4 mg mL -1 ，0.6 mg mL -1 and 0.8 mg mL -1 in IPA) was spin-coated on perovskite films at 5000 rpm for 30 s and then annealed at 100 • C for 5 min on hot plate. The 54.3 mg Spiro-OMeTAD doped with 13.5 μL of Li-TFSI (520 mg mL -1 in ACN), 15 μL of FK209 Co (III) TFSI salt (300 mg/mL in ACN), and 22.5 μL tBP was dissolved in 1 mL CB, it was coated at 3500 rpm for 30s. Finally, the gold electrode was steamed on top of the HTL layer as a metal electrode under a pressure of 3 × 10 -3 Pa. Characterization techniques: The J-V curve of PSC was measured with a Keithley 2601 B light source (TEKTRONIX, INC., USA) under standard solar illumination (AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm -2 ) provided by a standard xenon solar simulator (Peccel Tech., Inc., Japan). The effective active area of the device is 0.18 cm 2 , the device area was 0.15 cm 2 as defined by the shadow mask. The FTIR spectrum was measured with Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS20 b y spin-coated BTFZA on perovskite and mixed PbI 2 +BTFZA. XPS measurements were performed on a Thermo-Fisher ESCA Lab250Xi system with a monochromatized Al Kα (for XPS mode) under the pressure of 5.0 × 10-7 Pa. J-V curves at a scan rate of 100 mV s-1 in the range of 0 and 1.2 for forward scan (FS) and reverse scan (RS). Monochromatic incident photon-to-electron conversion efficiency (IPCE) was measured by PEC-S20 of Peccel Tech., Inc. The microscopic morphology of perovskite films requires the use of a highresolution field emission electron microscope (Hitachi SU70). The Xray diffraction (XRD) was measured from angle 10 • -60 • in scanning rate 10 • /min by Smart lab SE of Rigaku using Cu target (3 KW, "λ = 0.154 nm"). The surface roughness was determined by atomic force microscopy (Micron NexSPM, Zhushan). The Lambda 750 S UV spectrophotometer (PerkinElmer, UK) uses a tungsten lamp as a light source to test perovskite films at a wavelength range of 300~800 nm and a resolution of 1 nm. Photoluminescence (PL) spectra and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) were measured using the FLS1000 instrument with an excitation wavelength of 375 nm. The EIS analysis and Mott-Schottky characterization were performed on an electrochemical workstation (CHI600E). The EIS was measured with frequency 1~10 6  Hz, bias voltage 0.005 V. The Mott-Schottky was measured with frequency 1~1000 Hz, bias voltage 0.05 V, voltage test ranges are 0 and 1.5, respectively. For stability monitoring conditions, our humidity stability is monitored at room temperature of 26 • C, but for thermal stability, room temperature is not enough, we put it on a hot plate set at 85 • C to monitor it and reduce the humidity to 30%. 
 Results and discussion The n-i-p type device of PSC with the configuration of ITO/SnO 2 / perovskite/BTFZA/spiro-OMeTAD/Au is presented in Fig.  1a . We used BTFZA, a small molecule consisting of a benzene ring, an amide and two trifluoroacetyls, as the interface passivator, seeking the synergetic effect between each functional group to achieve better film quality and higher photovoltaic performance of the device (Fig.  1b ). The carbonyl group contributes to the passivation of cationic defects with insufficient coordination and the suspension between the amino group and the halide. Meanwhile, thanks to the high hydrophobicity of fluorine, the passivation can also result in better resistance against moisture. The interaction between defects in perovskite film and each functional group of BTFZA can be visualized by FTIR. The BTFZA molecule contains characteristic stretching vibrational peaks of C-F, C--O and N-H that are found in the full range of spectra (Fig.  1c ). It is showed that the characteristic peak C--O shifted from 1660 cm -1 to 1663 cm -1 , indicating that the C--O binds to uncoordinated Pb 2+ ions in the form of Lewis adducts, which effectively inhibits the ion migration behavior  [35] . Moreover, the shift of the N-H stretching vibration peak when mixing PbI 2 compared to pure BTFZA indicates that BTFZA changed its own molecular state due to the hydrogen bonding between the N-H of the amino group and the iodide ion in PbI 2  [36, 37] .The characteristic peak of the C-F tensile vibration mode is detected at 1480 cm -1 . With the introduction of PbI 2 , the characteristic peak of C-F at 1499 cm -1 was found to be relatively shifted, indicating that the coordination Pb 2+ was effectively passivated by BTFZA  [29] . The reaction between BTFZM and PbI 2 is also illustrated in Fig.  S1 . In summary, the interaction between BTFZA and PbI 2 are distinct and strong, showing an effective defect passivation. In order to gain insight into the elemental composition and chemical bonding status of the perovskite film, we tested the X-ray Photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The full range survey spectrum of perovskite film modified with and without BTFZA were obtained. The survey spectra of both passivated and pristine perovskite film clearly show that the interface modification of BTFZA changes the intensity of Pb 2+ and I - characteristic peaks, which may be caused by the material covering and active role in the passivation of Pb 2+ (Fig.  S2 )  [38] . The F signal is hardly detected, probably because the amount of surface F atoms due to low concentrations is trace, and the noise of the equipment affects the signal monitoring  [37] . According to the fine spectra obtained by amplification of Pb 4f region (Fig.  1d ), excitation electrons of 4f 7/2 and 4f 5/2 of Pb 2+ in the original sample form two peaks of 137.6 eV and 142.5 eV, respectively. After the modification of the BTFZA interface, the two Pb 4f peaks moved towards the direction of high binding energy, the excellent electron affinity caused by the electronegativity of the C-F bond can bind the uncoordinated Pb 2+ to the surface of the perovskite, and the high electronegativity increases the electron cloud density. The 3 d 3/2 and 3 d 5/2 peaks of the high-resolution XPS spectra of I 3 d (Fig.  1e ) also shift towards the high binding energy by 0.1 eV and 0.2 eV, respectively, further demonstrating the chemical binding between Pb 2+ and C-F bonds, and it also shows that the N-H bond in the amino group can be bound to iodine  [34, 39] . The chemical shift of iodine binding energy indicates that there is interaction the BTFZA and iodine in a hydrogen bond, which passivated I -defect. The identical phenomenon also occurs on N 1s peak (Fig.  1f ), The C-N characteristic peaks of FA + and MA + in the original perovskite are located at 399.8 eV. After BTFZA was applied to the perovskite film, the C-N characteristic peak shifted toward the high binding energy to 400.03 eV. This shift was attributed to the interaction of the organic cation in the perovskite with the amino group in the BTFZA functional group as a hydrogen bond N-H-N  [40, 41] . In order to investigate the impact of interface passivation of BTFZA on the perspective of defect state density, by analyzing the dark under the condition of space charge limited current (SCLC), the device of ITO/ SnO 2 /perovskite/PCBM/Au defect density are measured (Fig.  2a ). From the current-voltage (I -V) curve, we know that the voltage at the inflection points between the ohmic region and the trap-filling region is often referred to as the trap filling limit voltage (V TFL ). The V TFL values with and without modification by BTFZA were 0.3 V and 0.23 V, respectively. The value of N traps can be converted from V TFL according to the formula N traps = (2εε 0 V TFL )/(eL 2 )  [42] . The total trap density (N t ) is proportional to the trap-filling finite voltage (VTFL) under the condition that the thickness of the sample is known. Compared to the N traps of 9.69 × 10 15 cm -3 for the reference device, the N traps of the BTFZA-modified perovskite films were reduced to 6.8 × 10 15 cm -3 . This shows that the electronic defects on the surface of perovskite are effectively passivated, which improves the quality of perovskite film and contributes to the increase of V OC . Steady-state photoluminescence spectroscopy (PL) and timeresolved photoluminescence spectroscopy (TRPL)were measured to investigate the radiation recombination and carrier lifetime of the perovskite film and perovskite/Spiro interface. The TRPL pattern (Fig.  2d ) of pristine and passivated perovskite films are fitted by the double index decay formula I(t) = I 0 + A 1 exp(-t / τ 1 ) + A 2 exp (-t / τ 2 ) (1) with relatively fast decay time (τ 1 ) and slow decay time (τ 2 ), where τ 1 is mainly determined by the non-radiative recombination caused by carrier trapping, which is mainly due to the formation of shallow defect state on the surface of thin films, and τ 2 is related to in the film  [43] . The PL intensity of BTFZA-modification perovskite films is significantly higher than that of the reference device, what's more, the average carrier lifetime is also extended from 11.63 ns to 17.90 ns for the without BTFZA and with BTFZA sample respectively, which indicated the reduced trap densities and non-radiative recombination after the passivation of BTFZA on perovskite films. It was conducive to further increasing V OC and FF. The considerable reduction in PL intensity of films with ITO/PVK/BTFZA/spiro-OMeTAD structure further demonstrated the enhanced hole transport capability. In addition, the absorption spectra (Fig.  S3a ) and the Tauc plot (Fig.  S3b ) of perovskite films have no obvious change before and after BTFZA treatment, it shows that their band gap did not change, namely BTFZA passivation did not alter the band structure of the perovskite. For purpose of seeking the optimal amount of BTFZA employed on perovskite film, different concentrations of BTFZA precursors in isopropanol (pure IPA, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8 mg mL -1 ) were spin-coated on prepared perovskite films. Fig.  3a-b  shows the images obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of perovskite films passivated with different concentrations of BTFZA. The control perovskite film is composed of smaller crystal grains and the average grain size is about 320 nm. It is worth noting that the quality of grain boundaries is detrimental to the charge transport and collection. When the concentration of the modifier was 0.4 mg mL -1 , the average grain size of the perovskite film increased to 590 nm and thus had fewer grain boundaries. When the concentration of BTFZA increased to 0.8 mg mL -1 , the average grain size of the perovskite decreased slightly instead, which may be attributed to the formation of PbI 2 and BTFZA adducts  [34] . Under atomic force microscope, the roughness of the film treated with BTFZA was reduced, which may be attributed to that passivation agent filled the inter-grain space, thus reducing film imperfections  [44] . Then X-ray diffraction (XRD) was introduced to analyze the influence of BTFZA on the crystallinity of perovskite films (Fig.  S4a ). Similar diffraction peak representing (110) plane was shown at 13.88 • in both control film and BTFZA passivated films (Fig.  S4b ) indicated that the interface modification of BTFZA had no effect on the crystalline structure of the perovskite. With 0.4 mg mL -1 BTFZA, full half-peak width of the perovskite became narrow (Fig.  S4c ), which is consistent with the increase of grain size in the SEM images  [35] . To seek the best amount of BTFZA applied as passivator, 0.4 mg mL -1 , 0.6 mg mL -1 , and 0.8 mg mL -1 BTFZA solutions were used. J-V cure of the perovskite solar cells with and without passivation were characterized, and the respective results are shown in Fig.  4a  and Table  S2 . The control device provided a max PCE of 17.06%, with V OC of 1.06 V, J SC of 22.65 mA cm -2 , and FF of 71%. As we applied BTFZA passivator with increased concentration, the cell performance increased at lower concentration but slightly decreased with higher concentration. Especially, cells treated with 0.4 mg mL -1 BTFZA achieved 19.85% champion PCE, along with 1.10 V V OC , 23.46 mA cm -2 J SC and 77% FF. Research showed that the unbalanced carrier extraction and transfer between adjacent layers in perovskite can cause obvious hysteresis  [21] . Fig.  4b  shows the J-V curve of PSC with and without BTFZA modification tested under reverse and forward voltage bias, and Table  1  lists hysteresis index before and after BTFZA modification, where HI = (PCE reverse -PCE forward) PCE reverse × 100% (2) The calculated HI decreased from 5.1% in the control device to 3.8% in the BTFZA modified device, indicating that the BTFZA interface modification effectively decreased defect in perovskite films and improved carrier transport capability at the perovskite/Spiro-OMeTAD interface. The external quantum efficiency (EQE) test confirmed the credibility of the J SC (Fig.  4c ). The integrated J SC of the control and BTFZA passivated devices are 21.47 and 22.76 mA cm -2 , respectively, which are consistent with that of the J-V curve. In summary, the improved device efficiency is mainly attributed to the interfacial modification that reduced the defects on the perovskite surface, improved the perovskite film quality and interfacial contacts, which further improved V OC and FF, leading to high efficiency. To better understanding internal electric field distribution by plotting Mott-Schottky curves using built-in potentials (V bi ) (Fig.  4d ). Compared with control device, the BTFZA modified PSCs have made capacitance smaller and enhanced built-in potential with a bigger slope, indicating that the charge accumulation at the interface becomes less. The higher V bi means greater carriers separation drive, thereby causing a higher V OC of modified device  [45] . To gain more insight into the improved performance, the interfacial charge characteristics and the recombination process of the device were analyzed by applying a 0.5 V bias voltage for electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements. Fig.  4e  depicts the Nyquist diagram of the PSC before and after BTFZA modification, the simulation circuit employed is showed as the inset. Obviously, the BTFZA-modified device outperforms the original device with smaller series resistance Rs, charge transfer resistance Ctr and larger recombination resistance Rec, which increases the carrier transfer rate and decreases the carrier nonradiative recombination of the BTFZA-modified PSC, consistent with the enhanced FF, the fitting parameters were listed in Table  S3  [  45, 46] . In addition, to confirm the reliability of the efficiency and shortcircuit current, the perovskite solar cell device was tracked for 160 s under a solar illumination and the maximum power point (MPP) of the device. (Fig.  4f ). The photocurrent of the control and BTFZAmodification devices are stable at 20.22 mA⸱cm -2 and 22.41 mA cm -2 , producing 17.01% and 19.49% PCE, respectively, well in line with the J-V measurement. Fig.  4g  shows the dark semi-logarithmic J-V curve of PSCs with and without BTFZA passivation. The dark current for the BTFZA device is smaller than those of for the control device, indicating reduced leakage and suppressed non-radiative recombination  [47] . As shown in Fig.  5h , the relationship between V OC and light intensity were plotted following the equation ΔVoc = n(kT / q) In(Plight) + constant ( 3 ) Where n is the ideality, T stands for the temperature, k stands for the Boltzmann constant, and q means the elementary charge  [47] . With the application of BTFZA, the ideality factor decreases from 2.34 of the control cells to 1.95 of the BTFZA-passivated cells. This result indicates that the defect-induced non-radiative recombination in passivated PSCs was suppressed  [48] . The relationship between J SC and light intensity can also illustrate the above conclusion, as in Fig.  4i , which is fitted by the formula Where α stands for the degree of freedom of space charge limit and its ideal value is 1. Test result showed that α value was improved to 0.879 of passivated devices from 0.858 of the pristine devices, due to the effective passivation of carbonyl function group that reduces the bimolecular recombination  [49] . J SC ∝I α (4) The excellent photovoltaic performance is encouraging, and we continued study the effect of BTFZA interfacial modification on longterm stability, which is one of the main problems that hinder the commercialization of solar cells. To this end, we fabricated unpacked PSC devices with and without BTFZA treatment and monitored the XRD diffraction changes of conditions at room temperature with 40% relative humidity (RH) exposure for 500H to investigate the effect of passivation on the stability of the perovskite films. The decomposition of the pristine perovskite films produced an increase in the relative content of PbI 2 , (110) and a decrease in the intensity of the crystalline surface, probably due to perovskite decomposition (Fig.  5a ), while the samples based on the BTFZA treatment remained essentially unchanged (Fig.  5b ). To demonstrate the above results, we followed the PCE variation of the 600H devices, and the BTFZA-modified devices showed superior stability than the reference devices, maintaining 86% of their original efficiency at 40% humidity, while the reference devices were only 70% of the original efficiency (Fig.  5e ). Since the room temperature is around 26 • C, it cannot meet the conditions required for monitoring thermal stability. To further investigate the thermal stability, the XRD diffraction PbI 2 intensity of the reference perovskite film was increased by placing the unencapsulated sample on a hot plate at 85 • C in 30% ambient air traced for 500 H. The perovskite phase became weaker (Fig.  5c ). while the PbI 2 content of the BTFZA-treated perovskite films increased less, indicating that the decomposition was suppressed. (Fig.  5d ), after 600 H, the BTFZA-modified devices maintain some stability (retaining 70% of their initial PCE) and the unmodified devices have a PCE of 55% of the initial PCE (Fig.  5f ). As confirmed by the water contact angle test results, the water contact angle of the reference device increased from 58.26 • to 66.08 • after BTFZA modification (Fig.  5g  and h ), the result that can be credited to the passivation of defects in the perovskite film by the BTFZA passivator and the barrier effect of the trifluoro group in the molecule on water and oxygen. In conclusion, BTFZA plays a role in improving device stability. 
 Conclusions In summary, we develop an interfacial engineering strategy to enhance the performance of PSCs by the surface defects passivation of  perovskite film. The systematical characterizations showed that BTFZA modification plays an important role in the formation of less defective perovskite films and the inhibition of non-radiative recombination of carriers, resulting from the strong interactions between BTFZA and uncoordinated PbI 2 . The BTFZA-modified PSCs exhibit significantly increased champion efficiency of 20%. In addition, the BTFZA-modified devices without atmosphere protection great stability under high humidity and temperature compared to the reference devices. The strategy by introducing multifunctional organic small molecules at the HTL/ perovskite interface provides a viable approach to further improve the efficiency and stability of PSCs. 
 CRediT authorship contribution statement Chunying Ma: Writingoriginal draft, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Chu Zhang: Writing  Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. (a) The schematic illustration of devices (b) Schematic illustration of the passivation of BTFZA molecules (c) FTIR spectra for the perovskite films with and without BTFZA -modification (The inset is an enlarged view of the carbonyl). (d-f) XPS Pb 4f, I 3 d, and N 1s spectra of as-formed and BTFZA-contained films, respectively. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. (a) The SCLC characteristics of as-formed and BTFZA-passivation electron-dominated devices with corresponding architecture (inset). And SSPL spectra of the perovskite films deposited on glass (b) and SnO 2 (c) substrate without and with BTFZA-modification substrates(d) TRPL spectra of perovskite films deposited on glass substrate without and with BTFZA-modification. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. (a) Surface view SEM characterizations (b) the grain size statistics of as-formed and BTFZA passivation films and (c) surface view AFM characterizations of asformed and BTFZA-passivation films. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. (a) J-V curves (b) J-V curves scanned in different directions (c) EQE spectra (d) Mott-Schottky plots (e) Nyquist plots with the equivalent circuit model in the inset (f) stable output (g) Dark J-V curves (h) V OC and (i) J SC on the irradiation intensity for the of PSCs with and without BTFZA-passivation. 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. Stability test for 500 H under a RH of 40-50% and 30% + 85 • C for pristine perovskite and perovskite/BTFZA films based on evolutions of (a, b, c, d) XRD patterns. PCE evolution of PSCs (e) at 40% RH and (f) at 30% RH at 85 • C. (g, h) The water contact angles for control and BTFZA-modified perovskite films. 
 Table 1 1 Photovoltaic parameters of devices based on Control device and BTFZA passivation device under reverse scan and forward scan. Concentration Scan directions V OC [V] Jsc [mA cm -2 ] FF [%] PCE HI Pristine reverse 1.06 22.65 0.71 17.06 5.1% 0.4 mg mL -1 forward reverse 1.04 1.10 21.94 23.46 0.71 0.77 16.19 19.85 3.8% forward 1.10 22.68 0.76 19.09
