Paper #: 9873_1
Title: Limitations and Progresses in Carbon-Based Cesium Lead Halide Perovskite Solar Cells
Inorganic cesium lead halide perovskites (CsPbI x Br 3À x , 0 � x � 3) are promising alternatives with great thermal stability. Additionally, the choice of moisture-resistive and dopant-free carbon as the electrode material can simultaneously solve the problems of stability and cost. Therefore, carbon electrode-based inorganic PSCs (C-IPSCs) represent a promising candidate for commercialization, yet both the efficiencies and stability of related devices demand further progress. This article reviews the recent advancement of C-IPSCs and then unravels the distinctive merits and limitations in this field. Subsequently, our perspective on various modification strategies is analyzed on a methodological level. Finally, this article outlooks the promising research contents and the remaining unresolved issues in this field. We believe that understanding and analyzing the related problems in this field are instructive to stimulate the future development of C-IPSCs.
Introduction Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have attracted great research enthusiasm due to the outstanding optoelectronic properties of perovskites, such as large absorption efficient, tunable bandgap, high carrier mobility, and solution processability.  [1]  The highest power conversion efficiency (PCE) of PSCs has reached 26.12 %,  [2]  which is competitive to commercialized silicon solar cells. Besides PCE, the stability and cost issues significantly hinder the commercialization of PSCs. A representative PSC device with the classical n-i-p structure is shown in Figure  1a  for discussion. The PSC device is usually composed of conductive substrate as cathode, electron transport layer (ETL, TiO 2 , SnO 2 , etc., with planar or mesoporous structures), photoactive perovskite layer, hole transport layer (HTL), and metal electrode as anode (Au, Ag, etc.). The remaining issues related to PCE, stability, and cost are highly associated with the properties of device materials and fabrication techniques. 3D perovskite exhibits a formula of ABX 3 , where A is a monovalent cation (e. g. methylammonium (MA + ), formamidinium (FA + ), Cs + , etc., or their mixture), B is a divalent metal cation (Pb 2 + , Sn 2 + , etc.), and X represents halide ions (I À , Br À , Cl À or their mixture). At present, the reported highest PSCs are usually based on organicinorganic hybrid perovskites, such as FAPbI 3 and its derivative species. However, hybrid perovskites usually exhibit limited stability at high temperatures due to the volatile characteristics of A-site organic cations. In comparison, substituting organic cations with nonvolatile Cs + to form inorganic CsPbX 3 perovskites can improve their thermal stability.  [3]  In addition, CsPbX 3 perovskites exhibit slightly larger bandgap (~1.70 eV for ~1.90 eV for CsPbI 2 Br, ~2.05 eV for CsPbIBr 2 , and ~2.30 eV for CsPbBr 3 ) than corresponding hybrid perovskite analogues. Therefore, CsPbX 3 perovskites have the potential to output larger open-circuit voltage (V oc ) and serve as the promising top light absorbers in tandem photovoltaic devices.  [4]  Hole transport materials (HTMs) and metal electrodes are also bottlenecks limiting device stability and cost. Common HTMs, such as 2,2',7,7'-tetrakis-(N,N-di-4-methoxyphenylamino)-9,9'-spirobifluorene (Spiro-OMeTAD), poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT), poly(triarylamine) (PTAA), and poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS), as well as noble metal electrodes (Au, Ag), are expensive.  [5]  In addition, the HTMs usually require additives to improve hole transport performances, yet the additives lead to issues of hygroscopicity, deliquescence, and undesired chemical reactions with perovskite or electrode materials.  [6]  The noble metal electrodes not only increase device fabrication cost but also react with perovskite and induce device degradation by undesired metal migration (for Au) and ion diffusion across HTL (for Ag).  [7]  Therefore, exploring suitable electrode materials and designing novel device structures to get ride of expensive components are promising strategies. Among all, carbon is conceived as the promising counter electrode material owing to its great conductivity, various regulable structures, chemical stability, low-cost, and fabrication facility.  [8]  These features greatly satisfy the requirement of simplified fabrication, cost reduction, device stability improvement, and large-area commercialization. Based on the background, it is expected that the combination of carbon electrodes with inorganic perovskites, namely, the fabrication of carbon-based inorganic perovskite solar cells (C-IPSCs), can synergistically integrate their advantages, thus drawing a blueprint for the commercialization process.  [8b,d,e]  The structure of an HTL-free C-IPSC device is illustrated in Figure  1b . Note that the outstanding feature of C-IPSCs is the needlessness of HTL. Since the first report of CsPbBr 3 C-IPSC in 2016,  [9]  great progress has been made. For example, the C-IPSC structure has become mainstream for CsPbBr 3 -based PSCs. As shown in Figure  1c , by the time this article is finalized, CsPbBr 3 C-IPSC has demonstrated the highest PCE level of 11.08 % among all CsPbBr 3 PSCs and the highest open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 1.702 V in the whole field of single junction lead halide PSC.  [10]  The best unencapsulated CsPbBr 3 device exhibits great stability under high humidity and high-temperature conditions.  [11]  Besides, CsPbIBr 2 C-IPSC has demonstrated the highest PCE level of 12.05 % among all reported CsPbIBr 2 PSCs.  [12]  However, for CsPbI 2 Br and CsPbI 3 C-IPSCs with larger theoretical PCE and greater application potential, the corresponding reported highest PCE values (15.57 %,  [13]  18.05 %,  [14]  respectively) are still obviously lower than those based on HTM-containing devices (17.8 %,  [15]  21.8 %,  [16]  respectively). Overall, there remains large room for efficiency improvement of C-IPSCs to approach carbon-free devices and Shockley-Queisser (SÀ Q) theoretical limits.  [17]  The limited efficiencies of C-IPSCs should on one hand be ascribed to the common issues of inorganic perovskite materials, such as structural instability, defects in polycrystalline perovskite films, limitations from fabrication techniques, etc. On the other hand, it should be attributed to the drawbacks of carbon electrodes and perovskite/carbon interfaces, such as limited incident light reflection, nonoptimal interfacial carrier dynamics, etc. Unraveling and understanding these characteristic features of C-IPSCs are key to the design of optimized devices, so that greater device performances can be realized in the future. It should be noted that several insightful comprehensive reviews  [8b,d,e]  and thematic overviews, in terms of inorganic perovskite fabrication techniques,  [18]  elemental doping and additive engineering of precursor solutions,  [19]  defect management,  [20]  interface engineering,  [21]  and modification of carbon electrodes,  [22]  etc., have been published in recent years. These articles assemble detailed information with a complete literature survey (not limited to carbon electrodes). This article follows up and updates some most recent works in the field of lead-based C-IPSCs, with the information summarized in Table  S1 . Different from these publications, this review article elaborately analyzes the peculiar properties and bottleneck issues of inorganic lead halide perovskites, carbon electroderelated interfaces, and C-IPSCs. Then, representative modification methodologies and strategies to improve device performances are illustrated. The distinctive feature of this review is to establish the logical relations between specific modification strategies and the solved principle issues they correspond to. Finally, the article is concluded, and the remaining valuable issues both in terms of academic research and practical application are outlooked. We believe that upon understanding the key theoretic issues, it will be beneficial for the researchers to design and develop targeted modification strategies to boost further development of C-IPSCs. 
 Characteristics of Inorganic Lead Halide Perovskites and C-IPSCs The substantial characteristics of CsPbX 3 C-IPSCs lie in the choice of Cs + as the A-site cation of perovskite and carbon as the electrode. All the different properties of all-inorganic CsPbX 3 perovskites from hybrid ones are attributed to the small radius and inertness of Cs + . Besides, the characteristics of carbon and perovskite/carbon interfaces largely determine the performances of solar cell devices. The limitations are illustrated in Figure  2 , and the related discussions are carried out in this section. 
 Small Radius of Cs + In ionic crystals, the size of ions determines the coordination number of counterions and thus the preferred crystal structures. For the specific crystal structure, the radius of cations and anions should accommodate to each other to maintain the overall crystal stability. In perovskite crystal with the ABX 3 formula, the B 2 + cation is coordinated to six halide anions (X À ) in an octahedral fashion. A + cation occupies the cuboctahedral cavity of eight adjacent [BX 6 ] octahedral units, establishing an ionic bond and/or hydrogen bond with the [PbI 6 ] octahedron and maintaining the overall charge neutrality. The size of A + and its interactions with [PbI 6 ] octahedrons distort the angle of the IÀ PbÀ I bond and influence both the bandgap and the stability of the perovskite structure. Goldschmidt's tolerance factor (t) is the parameter to evaluate the phase stability of perovskite structure. These factors are defined by the ion radii of A + , B 2 + , and X À (r A , r B , r X , respectively, where t = (r A + r X )/2 1/2 (r B + r X )).  [23]  The structurally stable perovskite phases can only form within the region of 0.81 < t < 1.00. Cs + is the largest monovalent cation (167 pm) among all available stable candidates from the periodic table of elements, yet its size is still small compared with the common organic cation of MA + (270 pm) and FA + (279 pm) in hybrid perovskites. Correspondingly, CsPbX 3 perovskites exhibit smaller t values (0.817 for CsPbBr 3 , 0.814 for CsPbIBr 2 , 0.812 for CsPbI 2 Br and 0.809 for CsPbI 3 ). As the iodide content increases, the phase stability of CsPbX 3 perovskite decreases.  [3h]  Note that the t value of CsPbI 3 is smaller than the lower limitation of stable perovskite, indicating less stable cubic perovskite structures. In fact, the phase instability of iodide-rich inorganic perovskites is the bottleneck factor in limiting material stability. For example, α-CsPbI 3 undergoes phase transformation by titling of [PbI 6 ] octahedron into metastable black β and γ phases at low temperatures. Upon exposure to humidity, irreversible phase transformation to undesired δ-phase occurs robustly (Figure  2 ).  [24]  This is different from CsPbBr 3 , whose γ-phase is rather stable without subsequent thermodynamically-favored phase transformation.  [25]  Correspondingly, the required energy for the conversion from the thermodynamically stable yellow phase to perovskite is large, indicating that commonly higher operational temperatures (basically beyond 200 °C) are required to overcome such high energy barriers in the fabrication of black CsPbX 3 perovskites.  [26]  The elevated annealing temperatures limit the applicable choice of ETM and flexible substrates in IPSCs. For example, it is pointed out that the application of SnO 2 as ETL in inorganic PSCs (usually prepared below 200 °C) is limited due to its degradation at high operational temperatures.  [21a]  In addition, the small size of Cs + results in more severe shrinkage of [PbI 6 ] skeleton with distorted PbÀ IÀ Pb bonding angle and weakened wavefunction overlap, making a more difficult electron transition from iodide to lead. As a result, the bandgap can be enlarged than the corresponding hybrid analogues (~1.70 eV for CsPbI 3 , ~1.90 eV for CsPbI 2 Br, ~2.05 eV for CsPbIBr 2 , and ~2.30 eV for CsPbBr 3 ).  [27]  These values farther deviate from the ideal bandgap of photovoltaic materials (1.4 eV).  [28]  This is potential to outout higher V oc values, yet the theoretical acquirable loss of photocurrent cannot compensates gain from V oc . Therefore, theoretical efficiencies decrease over increament of bandgap. 
 Inertness of Cs + For ionic crystals, the related chemical activity is determined by the properties of constituent ions. The physicochemical inertness of cesium is dependent on its elemental properties. Cs + exhibits a large ionic radius (167 pm) and small charge quantity, demonstrating a very low ionic electric field. Meanwhile, Cs + is classified as hard acid because its electron cloud is resistant to polarization under an external electric field.  [29]  This indicates that Cs + can usually form neither strong enough ionic nor covalent bonds with Lewis base reagents. In fact, Cs + perhaps exhibits the weakest Lewis acidity and coordination capacity among all known cations.  [30]  It should be noted that CsPbBr 3 single crystals present the maximum reported mobility value over 2000 cm 2 V À 1 s À 1 measured by SCLC methods  [31]  and 4500 cm 2 V À 1 s À 1 for nanocrystals measured by time-resolved terahertz spectroscopy,  [32]  which are the highest levels so far among all reported lead halide perovskites. Such high mobility level can be partially attributed to the weak interactions of Cs + with [PbI 6 ] skeleton in the crystal lattice that results in limited carrier scattering. Besides, the nonvolatility of Cs + is substantially different from organic cations. One of the significant features rooted in the inertness of Cs + is the thermal stability of CsPbX 3 perovskite. For example, hybrid MAPbI 3 and FAPbI 3 perovskites undergo thermal decomposition at lower temperatures of 85 °C and 150 °C, respectively.  [33]  In contrast, CsPbX 3 perovskites can withstand high temperatures up to 400 °C without decomposition.  [34]  Different from hybrid perovskites, the thermal decomposition of CsPbX 3 at higher temperatures is due to the escape of PbX 2 instead of CsX.  [35]  In addition, it is found that in the characterization processes of SEM, EDS, cathodoluminescence, etc., where electron beam irradiation is applied, CsPbX 3 perovskites are more stable than the hybrid ones. This is because the heat generated by the electron beam in the sample cannot eliminate the nonvolatile inorganic species.  [36]  Although iodide-rich perovskites (such as CsPbI 3 ) exhibit serious phase instability triggered by moisture, bromiderich perovskites such as CsPbBr 3 , their moisture stability can be better than MA and FA-based analogues, because the hydrolysis-induced decomposition route related to organic cation systems does not occur.  [3a,37]  Correspondingly, under operational conditions, hydrogen vacancies (V H ) can serve as the dominant deep-level defects in MAPbX 3 perovskites that seriously undermine device performances,  [38]  while for CsPbX 3 systems, the negative effects from V H can be ruled out. Finally, it is found that mixed halogen-based CsPbI x Br 3À x perovskites exhibit less severe phase segregation under illumination. For MAPbI x Br 3À x , phase segregation starts to occur at a low Br content of around 15 %,  [39]  while for CsPbI x Br 3À x , the threshold lifts significantly to around 40 %.  [40]  This should be ascribed to the relatively unfavored energy effect toward phase segregation of the latter.  [41]  This phenomenon is linked to the optical properties. For CsPbI x Br 3À x , the bandgap varies almost linearly over x, while for MAPbI x Br 3À x and FAPbI x Br 3À x , severe deviation of linearity is observed.  [17]  The stronger nonlinear effect (optical bowing) is generally ascribed to a less stable alloyed structure with the enhanced tendency to segregate.  [42]  However, the inertness of Cs + can also bring about disadvantageous effects in terms of solubility and reaction activity. Overall, the physicochemical properties of precursors and materials dictate the design methodology and fabrication techniques of PSCs. In some cases, the undesired inertness of Cs + can result in obstacles in device fabrication and material modification. Solution-based techniques, such as spin-coating, spray-coating, doctor blade, etc., are mainstream techniques to fabricate perovskite films. The solubility level of perovskite precursors in a solution determines both the applicable techniques and crystallization kinetics. Therefore, solubility of solute is a fundamental issue in device fabrication. The poor coordination of Cs + with a common solvent indicates that the solvation and corresponding solubility of cesium salts are generally lower in common coordinating solvents (such as DMF and DMSO) than MA + and FA + -based salts. For the latter, the intramolecular dipole and the presence of an amino group increase the induction, orientation forces, and hydrogen bond with a solvent molecule. Such interactions significantly intensify the solvation and increase the solubility.  [43]  The low solubility levels of cesium salt (especially CsBr) appreciably influence the fabrication methods and modification strategies of CsPbX 3 perovskite films, as will be discussed later. In addition, the temperature coefficient (relation of solubility over temperature) of cesium salts can also be different. For MA + and FA + -based salts, the solubility levels usually exhibit sharp increments over increasing temperatures, because the hydrogen bond is intrinsically weak with low activation energy.  [44]  For cesium salt, the solubility can be much less sensitive to temperature due to the absence of hydrogen bonds. This feature can influence suitable operation temperature for perovskite fabrication. For example, in the gas quenching technique, we notice that cold-air flow is usually preferred for the fabrication of hybrid perovskites, while for inorganic perovskites, hot-air flow (e,g, 100 °C) appears to be advantageous.  [14, 45]  We speculate that under a hot-air flow, the solubility of MA and FA-based precursors are too large, under which condition the critical nucleation concentration and crystallization kinetics seem to be unoptimal. The inertness of Cs + can also dictate the activity of related surfaces. To minimize surface energy, the perovskite surface is usually terminated by the AX layer,  [46]  while the removal of surface ions (A + or X À ) and the formation of vacancy defects are feasible due to the relatively low formation energy.  [1]  Such behavior is also key to various surface modification strategies initiated by cation exchange.  [21]  However, the surface reaction is often based on solvent treatment, so the low solubility and inertness of Cs + make it resistant to cation exchange. As a result, harsher conditions or more active reagents for CsPbX 3 surface modification are usually required, making the choice of surface modification rigorous. As will be discussed later, exploring suitable reagents accommodating to the surface condition of CsPbX 3 remains a major task in the development of C-IPSCs. 
 Featured Limitations of Carbon Electrode and Perovskite/Carbon Interface Photogenerated holes are extracted and transported to an external circuit. In conventional HTL-based devices, both the HTL and the metal electrode are indispensable. HTL, which is in essence a p-type semiconductor, functions by separating excitons, extracting holes, blocking electrons, and providing ohmic contact. Sole HTL cannot serve as an electrode because they do not hold the ability of efficient conductivity and sufficient rigidity. Therefore, an electrode is necessary to complete the integrated circuit. If HTL is absent, a sole metal electrode can also form an ohmic contact at perovskite/metal interfaces. However, the formed depleted-heterojunction  [47]  has intrinsic drawbacks. For example, V oc will be constrained by Fermi-level pinning owing to surface states on the surface of semiconductors that accumulate the majority carriers.  [48]  As a result, a moderate and fixed potential barrier irrelevant to the choice of metal is present at the interface, and the efficiencies of metal electrode-based PSCs without HTM are undermined. Besides, the absence of HTL dramatically reduces the selectivity of holes at perovskite/metal interfaces. In stark contrast, the intrinsic properties of carbon discriminate it from a p-type semiconductor or metal. Conductive carbon materials (carbon black, graphite, etc.) are composed of conjugated nonpolar CÀ C bonds with limited polarizability, and this feature dictates that the dielectric constant of carbon materials (usually below 20  [49]  ) is significantly lower than metal (∞), which will result in significantly different band bending behavior compared with metal-participated interfaces.  [50]  Conductive carbon materials are in essence semiconductors but exhibit a zero bandgap, which exhibits significantly higher conductivity (e. g. 10 3 S/cm for graphite  [22b]  ) than conventional semiconductor materials. Due to the special stability and inertness, conventional carbon exhibits low enough Fermi energy levels (varying from À 4.6 to À 5.0 eV), and these levels are still shallow compared with the valence band maximum of perovskite (Figure  2 ). In C-PSCs, upon delicate design of band alignment, an ohmic contact forms at perovskite/carbon interfaces, and the Schottky junction holds hole selection and extraction ability without Fermi level pinning.  [51]  Therefore, the outstanding feature of carbon is the ability to efficiently extract and transport holes simultaneously, which is rather unique. However, the reported C-IPSCs are still less efficient than metal electrode-containing devices. Since the fabrication of the perovskite layer for different devices is fundamentally the same, this difference should mainly come from the unique device structure and working principles of C-IPSCs. The first problem is the unoptimized band alignment (Figure  2 ). Thermodynamically, V oc is determined by the difference between the split electron quasi-Fermi level (E fn ) and hole quasi-Fermi level (E fp ). The choice of carbon electrode as anode does not notably influence E fn , while the interaction of carbon with perovskite exhibits a strong influence on E fp . The work function of carbon (varying from À 4.6 to À 5.0 eV) is shallower than commonly used Au (À 5.1 eV), which corresponds to a lifted E fp level, larger potential offset, and thus lower acquirable V oc . In addition, not like a p-type semiconductor, carbon does not hold the ability to selectively block electrons. In the absence of HTLs, the hole selectivity of carbon is still fundamentally weaker than that of conventional HTM. As a result, in terms of kinetic factors, inhibited hole extraction and risked charge recombination at perovskite/carbon interfaces undermine device efficiencies and lead to undesired hysteresis (Figure  2 ). Interfacial carrier dynamics are also dictated by the contact of bilateral materials. Poor contact and lattice discontinuity between two functional layers results in the formation of dangling bonds on the perovskite surface. As a consequence, intraband states bring in energy disorder in band tails and decrease quasi-Fermi levels. It should be noted that the abnormally large Urbach energy is a discriminative feature of CsPbX 3 .  [17]  This is conductive to high resistance and severe charge recombination behaviors. On one hand, the morphology of bilateral functional layers has been conceived as a decisive factor in interfacial contact. Conventional HTLs are composed of stacked molecules or polymers. During layer fabrication, the molecules with small size self-assemble to ensure high density and good adhesion with a lower perovskite layer. In contrast, the carbon-electrodes prepared from bulk carbon materials by simple printing techniques usually show a weaker adhesion and interaction with a lower perovskite layer. In addition, solvents in commercial carbon-pastes (e. g., terpineol, cyclohexanone) can corrode the lower functional layers. As a result, the formation of pinholes at the interfaces and the destruction of perovskite can occur during the annealing process (Figure  2 ).The undesired morphology on one hand results in reduced charge transport channels.  [22]  On the other hand, an ideal built-in electric field is damaged In a band bending process. established. Along the direction of the electric field line, the electric potential decreases. It should be noted that there is an electric potential drop in the void region. The potential drop cannot be effectively taken advantage of for hole extraction, which is conductive to the waste of hole extraction driving force and lower acquirable V oc . Besides the morphology factor, heterostructure also influences the interfacial contact and lattice mismatch on the surface chemistry level. HTL is a stacked molecular layer with flexibility, while the carbon layer can be rigid. For conventional perovskite/HTL interfaces, the HTM molecules contain abundant terminal functional groups (À COOH, À SH, etc.). When perovskite and HTL are in contact, the HTM molecules at the layer surface enable themselves to anchor on atoms on the perovskite surface more facilely. Therefore, a relatively low proportion of uncoordinated atoms on the perovskite surface is ensured, and the ideal interfacial wavefunction overlap favors carrier extraction. In contrast, carbon materials without abundant terminal functional groups do not exhibit binding ability like an HTM molecule. As a result, lattice mismatch and the lack of strong chemical bonds aggravate the problem of interfacial heterogeneity, leading to the high concentration of dangling bonds on perovskite surface that impede interfacial hole extraction (Figure  2 ). Even if the morphological interfacial contact issue can be solved by mechanical techniques, the lattice mismatch issue remains. The properties of carbon materials can also bring about issues related to the incident light harvest. In HTM-based PSCs, the mirror-like metal electrodes can effectively reflect incident light. The increase of optical length can not only fully take advantage of incident light, but also reduce the required perovskite film thickness, thus simplifying fabrication. In contrast, carbon exhibits poor light reflection ability.  [52]  In C-PSCs, a substantially thicker perovskite layer (can be up to 1 μm) is usually required so as to efficiently absorb incident light (Table  S1 ). Correspondingly, developing suitable film fabrication strategies based on higher precursor concentrations and harsher crystallization kinetics can be challenging. 
 Modification Strategies for C-IPSCs The featured limitations in C-IPSCs should be addressed by pertinent modification strategies. This section elaborately selects and introduces the instructive works targeting these issues. Besides, the relations between the strategies and the solved scientific problems are combed. 
 Design and Optimization of Inorganic Perovskite Films by Solution-Processable Fabrication Techniques Perovskite films with high quality require good surface flatness and uniformity, fewer pinholes, and large grains.  [18]  The development of suitable perovskite film fabrication techniques is fundamental for the construction of PSCs with high performance. Solution-processable techniques, such as spin-coating, spray-coating, doctor blading, etc., are mainstream in the fabrication of perovskite films. Sufficient solubility of precursors is usually the prerequisite for the preparation of solutions and design of film fabrication techniques. In addition, the target perovskites are usually converted from precursor-solvent complexes or intermediates. A series of desired and side reactions can occur during the annealing process, and the phase stability of target perovskites will determine the applicable routes and related reaction conditions. These issues should be considered in developing a viable perovskite film fabrication method, and the relations among precursor, target, and reaction conditions should be understood. For CsPbBr 3 , it is usually difficult to prepare precursors by the conventional one-step method with a high concentration and accurate stoichiometrics due to the limited solubility of CsBr in coordinating solvents (e. g. 0.25 M in DMSO and 0.45 M together with PbBr 2 ). Thanks to the significant differences in solubility levels between CsBr and PbBr 2 , the two-step and multi-step methods have been developed as the mainstream for CsPbBr 3 film fabrication.  [53]  In a typical two-step fabrication process, a PbBr 2 layer is first deposited, followed by spin-coating CsBr solution on it or immersing it in a CsBr solution, to obtain target CsPbBr 3 . By systematically optimizing the precursor solution concentrations, the choice of solvent, and developing multi-step spin-coating methods, the controllability of film fabrication and the quality of perovskite can be significantly improved. It should be noted that in two-step methods, green solvents such as water can be applied to dissolve CsBr for subsequent film fabrication.  [54]  This is due to the rather high solubility of CsBr but the insolubility of PbBr 2 in water, whose polarity is large yet coordinating ability is limited. It marks a meaningful step toward eliminating solvent toxicity for device construction.  [54a]  Note that Cs + does not form hydrogen bonds with water or undergo hydrolysis due to its very low Lewis acidity. This feature is different from MA + and FA + . In order to suppress undesired formation of non-perovskite phases such as CsPb 2 Br 5 (insufficient reaction) or Cs 4 PbBr 6 (excessive reaction), it usually requires several deposition cycles of CsBr and the control of various experimental parameters in conventional two-step methods to realize adequate reactions.  [53a,55]  These are dramatically disadvantageous for the acquisition of perovskite films with ideal smoothness and good reproducibility. Therefore, developing one-step methods to fabricate CsPbBr 3 films with high quality is highly desired, and the low solubility issues of precursors should be overcome. Recently, we developed a novel strategy by choosing cesium acetate (CsAc) instead of CsBr and methylammonium acetate (MAAc) as the ionic liquid solvent to effectively facilitate the solvation of precursors. Such a strategy significantly increased the concentration of CsPbBr 3 precursor solution to 1.0 M, thus satisfying the requirement of thick-film fabrication based on the one-step spin-coating method.  [56]  The MAAc component participates in the formation of intermediate complexes, which modulates crystallization kinetics due to the strong interaction of Ac À with Pb 2 + and can be evaporated in the annealing process (Figure  3a ). Moderate compatibility of CsPbBr 3 with water inspires researchers to design unique film modification strategies. In a novel investigation, a water-vapor treatment (WVT) strategy was carried out for the secondary growth of deposited CsPbBr 3 films before thermal annealing.  [57]  Due to the large solubility of CsBr in water, upon WVT process, excessive 0D Cs 4 PbBr 6 on film surface releases CsBr to form 3D CsPbBr 3 and subsequent 2D CsPb 2 Br 5 phases. When the treatment stops and annealing begins, the reversed combination reactions with CsBr occur but progress in a different way, where the reaction of 2D CsPb 2 Br 5 with excess CsBr to form CsPbBr 3 and Cs 4 PbBr 6 is predominant. This process is not only proven by the detection of corresponding phases but also supported by the results of thermodynamic calculation. By controlling the WVT process, the phase conversion process can be manipulated. The overall effect of this reaction cycle is to convert partial 3D CsPbBr 3 on the film surface to inert 2D CsPb 2 Br 5 (Figure  3b ). Besides, the final 2D-to-3D and 2D-to-0D transformations contribute to the enhancement of ion migration and homogenization, leading to the secondary growth of crystals to large sizes and the improvement of the film quality. CsPbBr 3 can also be obtained from other inorganic perovskites by anion exchange reactions. In an investigation, CsPbIBr 2 films were initially synthesized based on the one-step spin-coating method, then CsPbBr 3 was converted by immersing the CsPbIBr 2 films in MABr-methanol solution.  [58]  In this process, the lower solubility of bromides than iodides should serve as the effective driving force for the successful anion exchange. The key point of this strategy lies in the application of MABr with large solubility as the source of bromide. As a consequence, undesired low-soluble CsBr and the associated multi-step spin-coating process can be avoided (Figure  3c ). By optimizing experimental parameters such as the moderate introduction of CsBr in exchange solution, the dose of exchange solution, and annealing temperature, CsPbBr 3 film with preferred [100] orientation, micrometer-sized grain size, and film thickness as large as 790 nm were realized. The radius of Cs + (167 pm) exhibits a larger difference from I À (220 pm) than Br À (196 pm). As a result, CsI can realize higher concentrations in DMSO, and the iodide-based CsPbX 3 precursors can dissolve with satisfactory high concentrations. Therefore, facile one-step film fabrication techniques are widely applied for the fabrication of iodide-containing CsPbX 3 films. In this strategy, stoichiometric CsX and PbX 2 are dissolved simultaneously in solution, followed by spin coating and annealing process to complete film fabrication. However, in mixed halogen-based systems, the different solubility of bromide and iodide precursors can result in undesired inhomogeneity both in intermediates and resultant films. For example, it is found that undesired stripes are formed on the CsPbI 2 Br perovskite film surface, because these regions induce different halogen-enriched domains. This phenomenon is severe when the film becomes thicker.  [13]  In another investigation, it is found that the CsBr is prone to segregate in the formation of intermediate due to its low solubility. Even if CsBr can eventually convert to CsPbI 2 Br after annealing, the crystallinity of the film is still impaired. To solve this problem, moderate employment of excessive lead halides (such as PbI 2 ) effectively prevents the precipitation of intermediate CsBr. As a result, the improved homogeneity of the intermediate results in improved crystallinity of CsPbI 2 Br films (Figure  3d ).  [59]  As the iodide content further increases, the low phase stability of perovskite becomes a serious issue owing to the undesired lower tolerance factor. For the preparation of CsPbI 3 perovskite, if stoichiometric CsI and PbI 2 precursors are simply mixed, instable α-CsPbI 3 will be obtained with both poor efficiencies and stability of resultant PSCs due to the facile phase transformation to δ-CsPbI 3 .  [34a]  This indicates that straightforward synthesis routes could be unsuitable for the CsPbI 3 system, and a novel phase conversion process should be developed. At present, the most successful CsPbI 3 perovskite film fabrication is based on DMAPbI 3 (or DMAI) mediation (DMA + = dimethylammonium cation), and the related film formation mechanism has been commendably unraveled (Figure  3e ).  [60]  The introduction of excessive DMAI in precursor induces the formation of discrete DMAPbI 3 and Cs 4 PbI 6 intermediates, and the formation of undesired δ-CsPbI 3 is avoided. Subsequently, the intermediates combine to form transient perovskite of CsxDMA1 À x PbI 3 , and the incorporation of larger-sized DMA + in crystal lattice greatly stabilizes the perovskite structure. Eventually, DMAI evaporates to form black β or γ-CsPbI 3 , which are more stable phases than α-CsPbI 3 with significantly lower annealing temperatures (200 °C vs. 350 °C). It should be noted that the highest PCE of 18.05 % (certified value of 17.8 %) in the field of C-IPSCs reported by our group is based on this strategy.  [14]  In addition to the pure-iodide system, the DMAPbX 3 (or DMAX)-mediated methods are also applicable for the fabrication of mixed halide-based C-IPSCs with high iodide content, such as CsPbI 2.6 Br 0.4 .  [61]  Deposition of perovskite films is initiated with a heterogeneous nucleation process, which significantly influences subsequent crystal growth kinetics and the quality of resultant perovskite films. Exploring suitable reagents adapting to the nature of CsPbX 3 to facilitate heterogeneous nucleation is meaningful. In an investigation, PbS quantum dots (QDs) were predeposited on the SnO 2 surface, and the fabrication of pinhole-free CsPbIBr 2 films was facilitated.  [62]  The lattice of cubic CsPbIBr 2 greatly matches that of rock salt PbS (Figure  3f ).  [63]  As a result, PbS QDs act as the seeds that facilitate the nucleation of CsPbIBr 2 and optimize subsequent epitaxial growth of CsPbIBr 2 crystal. The operational variables determine the thickness of the perovskite layer by controlling perovskite crystallization kinetics. For C-IPSCs, thicker perovskite film is necessary for efficient light harvest, while the choice and optimization of related fabrication remains a crucial challenge. The thickness of perovskite layers and the related fabrication techniques in reported C-IPSCs are summarized in Table  S1 . At present, one-step perovskite film preparation is mainly based on antisolvent-based spin-coating methods. In this method, the introduction of antisolvent in a spinning wet film abruptly induces a large supersaturation of precursors.  [64]  The nucleation and subsequent growth kinetics are optimized, yet relatively large concentrations of nuclei seem to be the factor limiting resultant film thickness. In comparison, hot-flow-assisted spin coating techniques have been developed to obtain thicker films.  [14, 45]  In this method, a hot air flow is cast on the spinning film to facilitate solvent evaporation (Figure  3g ). The solvent gradually and continuously evaporates under gas quenching, and only slight supersaturation of precursors is reached. As a result, relatively small concentrations of nuclei are conductive to large grain and thickness of resultant perovskite films.  [65]  For example, we found that a CsPbI 2 Br perovskite film up to 800 nm of thickness could be obtained based on a hot-flow-assisted spin coating method, while CsPbI 2 Br perovskite films based on the conventional antisolvent method exhibited a limited thickness of only 350 nm.  [66]  In addition, the hot-air flow could inhibit the penetration of water during film fabrication, enabling film fabrication in an ambient atmosphere with humidity even up to 80 %. 
 Elemental Doping Phase instability of inorganic perovskites is the major obstacle affecting the performance of IPSC devices, especially for CsPbI 3 . The small radius of Cs + and the shrinkage of cuboctahedral voids are the sources of phase instability. In terms of polycrystalline films, elemental doping represents a straightforward way to fundamentally solve the issues of structural instability by rectifying tolerance factor (t), relieving lattice strain, and increasing the entropy of the alloy.  [19b]  Theoretically, by moderately increasing the size of A + or reducing the size of B 2 + cations and X À , t values can be adjusted to a larger scale, rendering a more stable perovskite crystal structure. Among all, applicable anionic doping in bulk lattice is restricted to Cl À , Br À , and I À . This should be classified into compositional engineering. Pseudohalide anions (SCN À , BF 4 À , HCOO À , etc.) can only be distributed at the grain boundaries of perovskite instead of being incorporated into bulk lattice.  [67]  Therefore, pseudohalide modifications should be classified into surface modifications. This subsection focuses on A + and B-site inorganic cationic doping in reported C-IPSCs. B-site cations are coordinated at the center of [BX 6 ] octahedrons, which are difficult to replace by -post-treatment strategies. In doping strategies, dopants are usually introduced in perovskite precursor solutions, and the incorporation of dopants is realized in the perovskite crystallization process. Nowadays, various cations have been demonstrated, including homovalent doping, such as Mg 2 + (72 pm),  [68]  Mn 2 + (80 pm),  [69]  Zn 2 + (74 pm),  [70]  Sr 2 + (113 pm),  [71]  Cd 2 + (97 pm),  [72]  Sn 2 + (93 pm),  [73]  Eu 2 + (109 pm),  [74]  as well as heterovalent doping, such as In 3 + (81 pm),  [75]  Sb 3 + (92 pm),  [76]  La 3 + (106 pm),  [77]  Sm 3 + (96 pm),  [78]  Tb 3 + (92 pm),  [79]  Nb 5 + (64 pm),  [80]  etc. Beneficial effects mainly include the following aspects. (1) B-site cation influences the scale of BX 6 octahedron and cuboctahedral voids. This indicates that dopants of smaller B-site cations than Pb 2 + (119 pm) can rectify the tolerance factor, and relieve lattice strain, thus enabling more stable perovskite structures (Figure  4a ).  [81]  For heterovalent doping, suppressed formation of halide vacancies is possible due to the charge neutrality requirement. (2) Dopants can modulate crystallization by establishing interactions with perovskite precursors, and dopants optimize film morphology by accumulating at grain boundaries to change the surface energy. Appropriate doping strategies can enhance crystallinity, enlarge grain size, and inhibit the formation of defects. (3) The energy levels are dictated by the electronegative and interaction properties of B and X-site ions. Therefore, band structure and corresponding optoelectronic properties, such as bandgap, incident light harvest, and carrier transportation, etc., can be modulated by B-site cationic doping. For example, Mn-doped CsPbIBr 2 (Figure  4b ),  [69]  Sn-doped CsPbIBr 2  [73]  and In-doped CsPbI x Br 3À x  [75]  demonstrate rather obvious redshift of corresponding perovskites. This is beneficial for the broadened photoresponse. The doping mechanism is briefly discussed. A successful doping process is to form a homogeneous alloy system. The effectiveness and degree of a cationic doping process are highly related to the nature of the dopant and its similarity to Pb 2 + . In theory, homovalent doping (+ 2) and similar ionic radius values to Pb 2 + are usually regarded as beneficial factors facilitating a doping process. Yet chemical valence is not a sufficient condition. For example, although various divalent cations have been proclaimed to dope into perovskite lattice, most of them demonstrate rather low doping contents (generally below 10 À 1 ). This is because they cannot form halide perovskite phases. For comparison, divalent Mg 2 + lacks d atomic orbital and cannot form hybrid orbitals with six coordination bonds. Once an Mg 2 + substitutes a Pb 2 + , the interaction of Mg 2 + with X À should be highly ionic rather than covalent, thus the perovskite structure is not favored. In comparison, Sn 2 + can form perovskite phases, so effective doping of Sn 2 + with large doping contents is viable, representing a class of mixed perovskite material.  [82]  As a special case, although Nb 5 + (64 pm) exhibits a rather large difference from Pb 2 + (119 pm) regarding charge and cationic radii, effective doping of Nb 5 + in perovskite is viable, because Nb 5 + can form various perovskite structure.  [80]  The doping content is dictated by the concentration of the dopant in the precursor. Once the doping limit is reached, the superfluous dopants can enrich at the surface and grain boundaries. Additionally, the choice and content of dopant should be controlled. Excessive and/or heterovalent dopants can generate new deep-level defects, which is disadvantageous for the defect-tolerance characteristics of perovskite.  [19b]  These rules are highly referential in designing and constructing a doping system. Similar to B-site doping, the A-site doping of Cs + by inorganic Li + , Na + , K + , and Rb + has also been reported to improve film morphology and optimize electronic structure. For CsPbBr 3 and CsPbIBr 2 perovskite with good structural stability, partial A-site doping (Li + , Na + , K + , and Rb + ) is declared to decrease the volume of the crystal unit cell. As a consequence, enhanced structural stability is realized.  [83]  In the cases of CsPbI 2 Br and CsPbI 3 perovskites with less structural stability, it is intuitively recognized that A-site doping further shrinks the PbX 6 octahedron and decreases the tolerance factor. However, there are still innovative insights. In an investigation, it is observed that moderate doping of Na + can enhance the stability of CsPbI 3 perovskite, and partial Na + doping in TiO 2 substrate relieves lattice strain at CsPbI 3 /TiO 2 interfaces, which accounts for the stabilization of perovskite structure.  [84]  In a recent investigation, it was found that NaSCN can act as an efficient dopant in modifying the properties of CsPbI 2 Br perovskite.  [85]  According to the theoretical calculation result, Na + is incorporated to substitute Cs + at the A-site due to the lower formation enthalpy, while interstitial incorporation is not favored. The substitution of Na + contracts the [PbI 6 ] octahedron and enhances the barrier for I À diffusion. As a result, the formation of I À vacancies is expected to be inhibited (Figure  4c ). 
 Additive Engineering Additive engineering and doping strategies are all based on the modification of precursors. Different from ionic doping, additives in precursor solutions do not contain foreign components that can be retained in the bulk crystal lattice of resultant perovskite. In some cases where deviated stoichiometric ratios of perovskite precursors or highly volatile additives are introduced, the resultant perovskites do not contain foreign additives after the annealing process, and the related strategies mainly aim at modulating perovskite crystallization. For exam-ple, it is demonstrated that the addition of over-stoichiometric lead reactant (lead halides or Pb(SCN) 2 ) could inhibit the formation of less-soluble CsBr and improve the crystallinity of CsPbI 2 Br.  [59, 86]  In prepartion of CsPbI 3 , it is reported that the nonstoichiometric precursor ratio of 1.3 : 1.3 : 1 (DMAI:PbI 2 :CsI) suppressed the formation of undesired δ-CsPbI 3 , minimized DMAPbI 3 residual and generated PbI 2 passivator on grain boundaries. These are advantageous for enhanced PCE.  [87]  In some cases, the additives can remain after the film fabrication process. Different from being incorporated into perovskite crystal lattice as a dopant, they distribute at the surface and grain boundaries of final perovskite films. They can play similar roles to volatile additives such as crystallization manipulation, while the material properties can be adjusted more comprehensively, especially the grain boundary anchoring effects to endow perovskites with greater defect passivation effect and structural stability. This is linked to the stabilization of the CsPbX 3 perovskite structure. In an investigation, a designed polyurethane (PU) polymer served as the additive in improving the efficiency and stability of CsPbIBr 2 C-IPSCs.  [88]  The uniformly distributed PU in the precursor could act as a threedimensional skeleton to induce the growth process of perovskite, and the interaction of PU with PbX 2 retarded crystallization and passivated defects. Consequently, the quality of perovskite was improved. More importantly, thanks to the selfhealing behavior of PU, the degraded PSC devices could recover both perovskite film morphology and efficiency upon moderate thermal treatment. This is because the heat treatment could recover intermolecular SÀ S bonds of PU and crosslink adjacent polymer chains (Figure  4d ). As a result, the defects within the degraded CsPbIBr 2 perovskite film could be effectively healed. In an investigation, tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate (TBAPF 6 ) was explored as an additive.  [89]  The results indicate that the TBAPF 6 benefited from regulating the crystallization process, resulting in an enlarged perovskite grain size and larger surface coverage. In addition, TBA + cations could passivate surface defects via electrostatic interaction. Furthermore, the hydrophobicity of the alkyl chain was beneficial for material stability. Similarly, 4-aminobenzoic acid (ABA) was also proven as an efficient additive.  [90]  The established interactions between molecular ABA and perovskite precursors lead to the induced growth of perovskite films with high crystallinity. In addition, ABA is able to cross-link the adjacent CsPbI 2 Br grains to form films with great interconnection (Figure  4e ). As a result, remarkably improved CsPbI 2 Br phase stability was observed. In some cases, the additives can form beneficial phases. For example, piperazine-1,4-diium iodide (PZDI 2 ) was incorporated into CsPbI 3 perovskite precursors.  [91]  PZD 2 + cations are inserted between layered perovskites to form the Ruddlesden-Popper 2D structure (Figure  4f ), enhancing the efficiencies and stability of PSCs. Additives can also be incorporated in multi-step film fabrication strategies. In an investigation, ionic liquid of EmimX (Emim + = 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium cation and X À = halide or pseudohalide anion) was added into PbBr 2 precursor solution in the fabrication of CsPbBr 3 perovskite films in multi-step fabrication.  [92]  The Emim + shows the ability to passivate ionic defects and increase the hydrophobic ability, while (pseudo)halide anions prefer to adsorb on the (110) plane. As a result, (h00) plane-oriented perovskite films were obtained. The (h00) plane was inert and exhibited a larger formation energy of deep-level PbÀ Br antisite defects (Pb Br ). Correspondingly, the formation of Pb Br was strongly inhibited with boosted V oc , and the stability of devices was enhanced (Figure  4g ). 
 Engineering of Perovskite/Carbon Interfaces In the perovskite fabrication process, defects are enriched on the material surface owing to the termination of the periodic crystal lattice and low defect formation energy. Defects not only act as the recombination centers that undermine hole extraction and induce V oc loss but also initiate perovskite degradation that is harmful to device stability.  [21]  These are common issues in the field of PSCs. In addition, when carbon electrodes replace conventional HTL/metal electrodes, specific issues, such as nonoptimal band alignment, the ineffectiveness of electron blocking, and inadequate interfacial contact, etc., further harm device performances.  [8b,d,e]  It should be noted that compared with conventional HTL-based devices, the disadvantageous factors related to perovskite/carbon interfaces are more fatal in restricting the efficiencies of C-IPSCs. On that account, although the needlessness of HTL is an outstanding concept for C-IPSCs, in order to improve device performances, developing suitable interface engineering strategies compatible with perovskite/carbon interfaces is still crucial to tackle these issues. Interface engineering can improve interfacial contact, passivate defects, and adjust energy level alignment. These highlight the significance of interfacial engineering, which is indeed a mainstream research direction in the development of C-IPSCs.  [21]  Large energy misalignment between perovskite and carbon is the decisive thermodynamic factor contributing to the loss of V oc . Since the energy level of perovskite and carbon usually cannot change substantially, interface engineering with the use of suitable regents, including molecular, polymeric, or semiconductor compounds, can be applied to optimize energy level alignment. It should be noted that the mechanism of band alignment modulation can be different. For example, we found that hexyltrimethylammonium bromide (HTAB) was an effective reagent to modify the CsPbI 2 Br perovskite surface.  [66]  HTAB induced a molecular dipole that resulted in an upward band bending of perovskite. Upon optimal dipole modification, the interfacial energy level offset dramatically decreased from 0.70 to 0.32 eV, accompanied by a substantially increased built-in potential of 70 mV (Figure  5a ). As a result, improved charge separation driving force and defect suppression were realized. For the same PSC system, we further found that Cs 2 SnI 6 nanocrystals could also serve as great interface engineering reagents, yet the effective mechanism was different. As a semiconductor, Cs 2 SnI 6 introduces a suitable valence band maximum position, resulting in a cascade energy level alignment. As a result, an accelerated hole extraction and inhibited interfacial recombination loss were observed.  [93]  Finally, we noticed that different interfacial engineering reagents could play synergetic roles when they are rationally composited. For example, we designed an effective composite hybrid hole conductor for CsPbI 2 Br C-IPSCs using poly-3-hexylthiophene (P3HT) and CsPbI 3 quantum dots (QDs).  [94]  P3HT can maintain the dispersity of QDs by substituting the long-chain ligands around QDs from synthesis. The hybrid hole conductor layer formed an advantageous gradient interfacial energy-level alignment, thus effectively facilitating hole extraction and blocking recombination (Figure  5b ). In addition, QDs with a narrower bandgap could improve light harvest capacity. Reconstruction of perovskite surface with organic ammonium halide (or analogues) to construct a low-dimensional (LD) layer is a common surface modification strategy. In the construction process, foreign cations penetrate and intercalate into 3D perovskite lattice to replace original A-site cations, completing the formation of LD species. Unfortunately, due to the poor volatility and chemical inertness of Cs + , CsPbX 3 perovskites usually exhibit limited activity toward cationic exchange.  [95]  This indicates that more powerful reagents containing cations with greater exchange ability with Cs + are desired to construct LD structure on the CsPbX 3 perovskite surface. Recently, we reported that choline cation (Ch + ) is a suitable reagent that can exchange with Cs + robustly, and a ChPbI 3 interfacial engineering layer was formed on the CsPbI 3 perovskite surface (Figure  5c ).  [14]  The activity of Ch + should be ascribed to its extremely large radius (448 nm) endowing ChPbI 3 with an open 1D structure, and the large lattice energy of ChPbI 3 acts as the driving force for cation exchange. Impressively, Ch + can also react with the undesired δ-CsPbI 3 phase and thus eliminate it. Due to the interness of the 1D ChPbI 3 layer, the defects on the perovskite surface were effectively passivated, meanwhile, improved stability of CsPbI 3 films was found. The resulting CsPbI 3 C-PSC delivers the highest PCE of 18.05 % and certified PCE of 17.8 %, among the highest in the field of C-IPSCs. Different from the posttreatment of perovskite films, the precursors of 1D modifiers can also be introduced during perovskite crystallization. In an investigation, quinuclidine-1-mum iodide (QCDI) is applied to form a 1D modifier (Figure  5d ).  [96]  It is found that post-treatment of CsPbI 3 films cannot form QCDPbI 3 due to the inertness of Cs + . However, treatment of intermediate films robustly forms the target QCDPbI 3 , because robust cation exchange of intermediate DMA + by QCD + can occur. Different from post-treatment, the intermediate treatment can also induce the optimized crystallization of perovskite. After annealing, the 1D QCDPbI 3 is distributed at the grain boundaries of CsPbI 3 perovskite, acting as a protective and passivating layer. This investigation provides a novel insight into the design and construction of LD/3D heterostructures. In a novel investigation, 2D CsPb 2 I 4 Br was constructed on the surface of a 3D CsPbI 2 Br perovskite film by the in-situ reaction of excessive PbI 2 from precursor solution with CsPbI 2 Br. This reaction resulted in the construction of a CsPb 2 I 4 Br/CsPbI 2 Br 2D/3D bulk heterojunction (BHJ) (Figure  5e ).  [97]  In CsPb 2 I 4 Br, Pb 2 + cations are confined in the center of the 2D [Pb 2 X 5 ] À layer, and its surface is enriched with X À ions. This structural feature is advantageous for the passivation of iodine vacancy defects of CsPbI 2 Br and suppression of charge recombination loss. Besides, CsPb 2 I 4 Br has stronger binding energy values than CsPbI 2 Br, corresponding to better thermodynamic stability of the former. The efficiency and stability of resultant C-IPSCs were substantially improved. The high sensitivity of CsPbI 2 Br to moisture usually restricts the preparation of CsPbI 2 Br PSCs in an inert atmosphere. This is an adverse factor that demands optimization. We recently developed an ambient fabrication route, and the results unpredictably indicate that moderate moisture benefits PCE.  [45b]  By analyzing the phase transformation at the perovskite surface during the annealing process, it is concluded that partial oxidation of the CsPbI 2 Br surface generates CsPbIBr 2 and PbO species, while moderate moisture competitively decelerates and thus realizes the manipulation of the oxidation process (Figure  5f ). The formation of heterostructure at CsPbI 2 Br/carbon interfaces favors an effective hole extraction and suppresses undesired charge recombination loss. The resultant PSC devices exhibit a high PCE of 15.27 % (certified value of 14.7 %), which is significantly better than those fabricated in an anhydrous N 2 atmosphere. In the fabrication process of perovskite films by two-step methods such as CsPbBr 3 , the conversion from PbBr 2 to CsPbBr 3 exhibits very large expansion of volume by nearly two times, and compressive strain is unavoidable. As a result, related defects undermine device performance. In an investigation, inorganic SbI 3 is proven to effectively reduce the surface strain of CsPbBr 3 .  [98]  The control CsPbBr 3 film from synthesis exhibited a smaller lattice constant of 5.699 Å, which is smaller than standard cubic CsPbBr 3 crystal (a = 5.830 Å). This demonstrates the existence of lattice strain. SbI 3 -treated CsPbBr 3 film exhibited an enlarged lattice constant of 5.755 Å, which is closer to standard cubic CsPbBr 3 crystal. This indicates that lattice shrinkage of CsPbBr 3 is strongly reduced. In addition, the surface SbI 3 effectively inhibited the formation of Br À vacancies and resulted in a more beneficial band structure for hole extraction (Figure  5g ). The relatively limited adsorption of intrinsic CsPbI 3 perovskite can also be partially compensated by the modification layer. In an investigation, it is demonstrated that integrating a composited layer containing poly (3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) and [6,6]-phenyl methyl C 61 butyric acid methyl ester (P3HT: PCBM) could effectively expand photoresponse of CsPbI 2 Br perovskite.  [99]  Original CsPbI 2 Br perovskite films exhibited a limited absorption onset below 600 nm, while the absorption was broadened to a higher range from 600 to 700 nm, thanks to the synergy from the modification layer. Such expansion of photoresponse was detected by absorption and EQE spectra, making a higher short-circuit current density (J sc ) level. In another investigation, nanosized diamond (ND) with great light scattering ability was applied as the interfacial engineering reagent.  [100]  The introduced ND particles at grain boundaries of CsPbIBr 2 perovskite films effectively promoted light absorption, and the enhanced utilization of incident light boosted J sc . Conventional interface engineering strategies are often difficult to fully passivate the defects deep in perovskite films due to the limited infiltration of traditional reagents. In additive engineering strategies, modulators in precursors can fully passivate grain boundaries, while they can also uncontrollably interfere with perovskite crystallization and bring in negative effects. In order to tackle these issues, a novel dynamic healing interface (DHI) is designed with the use of 2-bromonaphthalene (BN) as the interface engineering reagent.  [12]  The small molecule, nonvolatility, and low-melting-point (53-58 °C) features endow BN with convenient solid-to-liquid liquidation and great longitudinal permeation ability into the interiors of perovskite boundaries (Figure  5h ). As a result, BN leads to omnidirectional upgradation of the whole perovskite films. This strategy universally improved device performances regardless of perovskite compositions and device architectures. The optimized CsPbIBr 2 C-IPSC delivered the champion PCE of 12.05 %, marking the highest level among all reported CsPbIBr 2 PSCs. In C-IPSCs, the feature and fabrication of the interface engineering layer should be compatible with the fabrication of the upper carbon layer. The construction of the carbon layer is accompanied by an annealing process. The annealing temperature is fundamentally higher (usually beyond 100 °C) than those for the fabrication of common HTM and deposition of metal electrodes (usually below 100 °C). Unfortunately, the solvents in carbon paste at elevated temperatures potentially undermine the constructed modification layers. In this sense, exploring suitable surface modifiers exhibiting stronger interactions with perovskite is meaningful in C-IPSCs. Recently, pyridine and its derivatives have been investigated as effective surface modification layers on the CsPbI 2.6 Br 0.4 perovskite surface.  [61]  Among them, bidentate 2,2'-bipyridine (2Bipy) exhibits a greater interaction with perovskite owing to its stronger chelation than monodentate pyridine. Such strong interactions not only intensify defect passivation effects, but also exhibit greater anti-dissociation behavior against heat and solvent dilution (Figure  5i ). As a result, both the efficiency and the stability of resultant C-IPSCs were significantly boosted. Interface properties can also be modified by mechanical treatment without the introduction of foreign reagents. In C-IPSCs, the poor interfacial contact between perovskite and carbon limits device performances. One of the reasons for the limited contact is the unavoidable pinholes formed at the interface. In an investigation, a pressure-assisted modification was developed to improve the contact at the perovskite/carbon interfaces.  [101]  After the hot-pressing treatment, the graphite flakes in the carbon electrode were aligned horizontally, meanwhile, the interfacial connection was improved. 
 Modification of Carbon Electrode Carbon electrodes are mainly fabricated based on carbon paste containing graphite flakes and carbon black particles embedded in a polymeric binder matrix. Such a formula can date back to the early stages of dye-sensitized solar cells  [102]  and perovskite solar cells.  [103]  Binders are responsible for resultant film hardness, scratching resistance, humidity resistance, film moldability, and adhesion. Besides, binders enable interactions among the carbon particles. As a result, favorable conductive pathways are constructed, endowing the composite with conductivity higher than either sole carbon black or graphite. Solvents with low viscosity and volatility are applied to dissolve the binder. Solvents facilitate the electrode construction process by controlling the evaporation rate and paste viscosity. A homogenized mixture of these components serves as the carbon paste (Figure  6a ). Carbon paste is constructed on the surface of perovskite film by solution-processed techniques such as doctor blading and screen printing, then an annealing process is required to eliminate solvent, remaining a meso-scopic carbon electrode. The two carbon components play synergetic roles. The stacked graphite provides an efficient conducting channel, while carbon black particles with a much larger specific area tend to disperse and agglomerate on the surface of graphite or in the gaps of graphite sheets. Such agglomeration fills the voids, and the carbon black clusters serve as the bridge connecting adjacent graphite sheets. Therefore, an optimized ratio of graphite to carbon black is necessary.  [104]  Carbon electrodes can be facilely deposited by simple printing techniques in ambient air, enabling facile upscaling for industrial production.  [22]  It is also impressive that due to the stickiness of carbon paste, penetration of carbon in pinholes to contact with ETM is limited, especially when the perovskite layers are relatively thick. Therefore, the formation of detrimental shutting paths is prohibited, and the carbon paste is less sensitive to the formation of pinholes in perovskite layers (Figure  6b ).  [105]  However, carbon electrodes still exhibit lower intrinsic conductivity than metal electrodes. This results from the limited inter-layer conductivity of graphite and results in higher sheet resistance of carbon electrodes.  [106]  In addition, paintable fabrication techniques based on a sticky carbon paste lead to interfacial cracks or gaps. Unoptimal carrier dynamics at perovskite/carbon interfaces related to insufficient interfacial contact and undesired band alignment are bottlenecks limiting the performances of C-IPSCs. Interface engineering techniques cannot influence the intrinsic properties of carbon, so the modification of carbon materials is viable to improve device performance. Carbon modification aims to improve the conductivity of carbon, modify work function, and improve interfacial contact with the perovskite layer. The introduction of additives in carbon paste is a straightforward modification concept to modulate the properties of carbon electrodes by altering the properties of carbon paste. In conventional carbon paste, the attraction among carbon black particles leads to point contact, which can be inefficient for carrier extraction. To tackle this issue, in a representative investigation, 1D carbon nanotube (CNT) and 2D Ti 3 C 2 -MXene nanosheets are mixed in commercial carbon paste to construct an interconnected network structure.  [107]  The additives in carbon paste play synergetic roles. The low-dimensional nature of CNT additives is advantageous for the improvement of conductivity, and Mxene with a small size can effectively fill the voids and improve interparticle connection. This structure is demonstrated to enhance interfacial contact by eliminating pinhole structures, and the energy level alignment is also optimized by tuning the work function. Various effective additives, such as polyaniline/ graphite composite,  [53b]  Pt and alloyed Pt 3 M (M = Fe, Co, Ni),  [108]  PtNi nanowires,  [109]  carbonized bacterial cellulose,  [110]  and W 18 O 49 ,  [111]  etc., are also investigated in carbon paste. It should be noted that carbon electrodes can be utilized to supplement light harvest. In a novel investigation, a fluorescent carbon electrode was designed by incorporating a long persistence phosphor (LPP) into a carbon paste.  [112]  In this case, due to the light-storage and light-emitting behaviors of LPP, the unabsorbed incident light could be converted to fluorescent, making an enhanced light harvest ability. The introduction of additives in carbon paste results in a homogeneous distribution of additives in the resultant carbon paste. For comparison, if the additive can enrich specifically at perovskite/carbon interfaces, divergent modification effects can be expected. This category of modification can be realized by interfacial engineering methods. In an investigation, it was found that simply introducing a carbon black (CB) interlayer was advantageous to increase the contact area at CsPbI 2 Br/ carbon interfaces.  [113]  Meanwhile, CB particles could diffuse into the perovskite layer. Both the improved interfacial contact and the formation of a CsPbI 2 Br-CB bulk heterojunction were beneficial for hole extraction. Such an effect cannot be achieved by simply modifying the content of CB in pristine carbon paste. Relatively polar solvents (terpineol, cyclohexanone, etc.) in commercial carbon pastes can undermine perovskite materials under fabrication conditions, thereby generating surface defects and deteriorating the photovoltaic performance of PSCs. Besides, the bonding and mechanical properties of binder in carbon pastes can be easily damaged in a high-temperature annealing process. Therefore, exploring perovskite-compatible carbon pastes based on low polar solvents free of binder is of significance. As reported in an investigation, a series of solvents were explored for the fabrication of binder-free carbon paste, and a nonpolar mixed solvent containing n-octane (OT) and hexadecane (HD) was screened out as the ideal candidate.  [114]  Due to the optimized volatilization properties of mixed solvent over corresponding single solvent components, undesired cavity structure, and solvent residue could be effectively avoided in the resultant carbon electrode (Figure  6c ). The low polarity of alkane solvents could effectively prevent the corrosion of the perovskite surface during the electrode preparation process. Therefore, enhanced performances of PSC devices were observed. 
 Summary and Outlook Exploiting high-efficiency C-IPSCs is a promising way toward practical application of new-generation photovoltaics. This article reviews the development and featured limitations in the C-IPSC system, originating from the structural, and physicochemical characteristics of CsPbX 3 materials as well as the carbon-related carrier dynamics. The limitations can be mainly summarized as the following aspects. (1) Limited structural stability of iodide-rich perovskite due to the small radius of Cs + . (2) Inertness of Cs + with low solubility of precursors and reactivity, constraining the choice of device fabrication and modification techniques. (3) Severe recombination loss and nonoptimal hole extraction at perovskite/carbon interfaces owing to nonoptimal energy band structure and poor interfacial interactions. (4) Limited charge transportation within carbon electrode and compatibility of carbon electrode fabrication with the lower layer. The corresponding modification methodologies and strategies pertinent to these issues are discussed, including inorganic perovskite fabrication techniques, elemental doping, additive engineering of precursor solutions, interface engineering, modification of carbon electrodes, etc. Upon understanding the key theoretic issues, it will be beneficial for the researchers to design and develop pertinent strategies to further improve the performances of C-IPSCs. Further enhancement of efficiencies to chase the level of metal electrode-based devices and even the SÀ Q limit remains a major task. At present, none of the CsPbX 3 -based C-IPSCs satisfy the requirement of commercialization. Among all, the iodide-rich candidates of CsPbI 2 Br and CsPbI 3 should be emphasized, not only because of their small bandgap, small theoretical V oc loss,  [115]  large theoretical J sc and PCE but also due to their challenging stability issues. Rooting from the weak light reflection ability of carbon, thicker perovskite layers are usually required so as to realize efficient light harvest and boost device efficiency. However, increment in film thickness is translated to larger carrier diffusion distance and risky charge recombination loss. Therefore, the requirement for the fabrication of thicker films with fewer defects is lifted. In principle, for solution-processed methods, the construction of thicker layers is usually based on highly concentrated perovskite precursors. For Cs-based systems, the choice of suitable solvent and precursors to realize satisfactorily high precursor concentrations is the primary requirement. In addition, optimization of perovskite crystallization kinetics at high precursor concentrations is another issue that should be emphasized. It should be noted that in addition to conventional antisolvent-based spin-coating, novel approaches, including hot-flow-assisted spin coating, spray coating,  [14, 45]  inkjet printing,  [116]  thermal evaporation,,  [117]  etc., are promising in both obtaining thicker films and upscaling fabrication. Developing fabrication techniques in an ambient environment is also significant, and understanding the surface interaction of perovskite with water and oxygen is necessary.  [45b]  Phase instability of CsPbX 3 perovskites originating from crystal structure characteristics is the fatal issue limiting the performances of C-IPSCs. This cannot be coped with by alternating electrodes. Doping is the fundamental strategy to solve this problem by rectifying the tolerance factor and optimizing perovskite structure. For iodide-rich CsPbX 3 with greater application prospects in photovoltaics, cationic exchange represents a promising way of balancing efficiency and stability. The choice of a suitable dopant with the desired doping concentration is encouraged to avoid the undesired formation of isolated phases or defects. The elements that can form perovskite or perovskite-like structures should be considered with priority.  [118]  Among all, we reckon that doping with Sn 2 + is a promising strategy. As an extension, Sn 2 + can also form CsSnX 3 perovskite structure with better structure stability than CsPbI 3 , and the construction of hybrid PbÀ Sn and even Snbased perovskites with smaller band gap represents a class of perovskite material.  [82]  This remains largely unexplored in the field of C-IPSCs. For these materials, the issue of Sn(II) oxidation should be overcome. Besides, regarding elemental doping, resolving different chemical environments of dopants by virtue of advanced characterization techniques is meaningful to unraveling doping mechanisms and the influence of dopants on material properties and device performances. Additive engineering is another facile strategy to manipulate perovskite crystallization and passivate defects. Therefore, developed additive engineering strategies can indirectly tackle the structural instability issue of CsPbX 3 . The key factors in this strategy include the interactions of additive with perovskite and precursor, the chemical reaction that additive participates in, and the ultimate fate of additive. Understanding the perovskite crystallization mechanism is essential for the design and implementation of additive engineering strategies. In addition, surface grain boundaries exhibit termination of periodic crystal structure, where alteration of chemical bonds is prone to occur. Therefore, reducing grain boundaries can improve perovskite stability, because the probability of grain boundary-initiated phase conversion process can be reduced. For CsPbI 2 Br and CsPbI 3 , we consider that the precursors for stable low-dimensional structures are promising candidates as efficient additives. The undesired carrier dynamics at perovskite/carbon interfaces remain a serious problem in limiting device performances. This should be attributed to the nonoptimal interfacial band alignment and limited interfacial contact. Although the ability to extract and transport holes of carbon electrodes is an outstanding concept in C-IPSCs, the inability of carbon to effectively screen electrons and the unoptimal workfunction of carbon indicate that the construction of suitable interfacial modification layers adapting to perovskite/carbon interfaces is still necessary. Interface engineering aims to modulate inter-facial band alignment, passivate perovskite surface defects, and improve interfacial contact. In addition, passivation effects can improve stability by eliminating surface-initiated phase conversion. Note that the degradation of perovskite can be triggered by moisture and oxygen. Taking this into account, the following criteria should be emphasized. First, the interfacial layers should exhibit great electron blocking and defect passivation ability. Second, the interfacial layers should optimize band alignment by bringing in a suitable dipole and/or introducing appropriate intermediate level. Third, waterproof and inert engineering materials are preferred to prevent moisture and oxidation. Finally, the intrinsic properties of CsPbX 3 /carbon interfaces can be fundamentally different from those of CsPbX 3 /HTL interfaces, especially regarding the mode of interfacial contact. Therefore, understanding the heterogeneity of CsPbX 3 and carbon surfaces on morphological, molecular, and crystal lattice levels remains largely unexplored. It should be noted that the inertness of a Cs-rich surface is a typical feature for CsPbX 3 materials. Therefore, the delicate choice of reagent and solvent should be emphasized, so that necessary chemical reactions can occur on the inert surface of CsPbX 3 without undermining the surface properties. The intrinsic properties of carbon paste and carbon electrodes also influence hole extraction and transport. The undesired work function of carbon and limited adhesion with lower layers are bottlenecks limiting the performances of C-IPSCs. In addition, there remains room for improvement of the charge transport properties of carbon. The most straightforward modification strategy is to dope carbon materials with suitable additives, so that charge transport properties, work function, and adhesion to lower perovskite/interface engineering layers, can be optimized. In addition, direct application of doped carbon materials is a feasible way to modify the properties of carbon electrodes fundamentally. This has been investigated in carbon-based hybrid perovskite solar cells,  [22]  but remains largely unexplored in C-IPSCs. It should be noted that the interface engineering layer should be compatible with carbon paste. For example, the commonly applied HTM of Spiro-OMeTAD appears to be incompatible with the solvents in carbon paste.  [119]  In addition, the development of perovskitecompatible carbon pastes by using low polar solvents free of binder is of great significance. Finally, expanding the function of carbon is an innovative concept. For example, endowing carbon with unique abilities such as defect passivation, photoresponse broadening, etc., should be highly encouraged. The development of perovskite solar cells aims for practical applications. In this respect, developing large-scale fabrication techniques for C-IPSCs should be the ultimate goal. On one hand, the facile fabrication techniques of carbon electrode construction in ambient, such as doctor blading and screen printing, etc., make it extremely suitable for the development of scaling-up fabrication.  [22]  On the other hand, conventional film fabrication techniques, represented by spin coating, are unfortunately not suitable for large-area film construction due to the deteriorated uniformity. Therefore, developing suitable CsPbX 3 film fabrication techniques for large-scale production is indispensable. The issues related to divergent crystallization kinetics for the novel techniques and the increase of substrate resistance should be emphasized. Finally, the similarity of CsPbX 3 C-IPSC to other correlated fields is discussed. For material design strategies such as fabrication of perovskite films, doping, and additive engineering, the related knowledge in metal electrode-based IPSCs is fundamentally identical, and thus can be referential. Similarly, the achievements of carbon electrode modification in the field of hybrid perovskite-based C-PSCs are also highly adaptable. However, it should be noted that the viable interfacial engineering strategies reported in conventional HTL-based systems might not always be applicable in C-IPSCs, because their intrinsic interfacial properties are rather divergent. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. Schematic device structures of (a) HTL and (b) carbon-based IPSCs. (c) Summarized PCEs of highest CsPbX 3 PSCs and their SÀ Q limits, showing the current achievement and limitation of C-IPSCs. The SÀ Q limits are obtained based on the results of ref. [17], assuming the bandgap values of 2.30 eV for CsPbBr 3 , 2.05 eV for CsPbIBr 2 , 1.90 eV for CsPbI 2 Br, and 1.70 eV for CsPbI 3 . 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a) Schematics of CsPbBr 3 film crystallization kinetics based on CsAc precursor and MAAc solvent by one-step spin-coating method. Reprinted with permission from ref. [56]. Copyright 2019 Royal Society of Chemistry. (b) Schematic of the interactions and reactions between perovskite and water in WVT process. Reprinted with permission from ref. [57]. Copyright 2023 Springer. (c) Schematic one-step fabrication of CsPbBr 3 C-IPSCs through a halide exchange route. Reprinted with permission from ref. [58]. Copyright 2023 American Chemical Society. (d) Schematic crystal growth kinetics of CsPbI 2 Br films with and without over-stoichiometric PbI 2 . Reprinted with permission from ref. [59]. Copyright 2020 Elsevier. (e) A schematic mechanism for CsPbI 3 perovskite formation induced by DMAI additive. Reprinted with permission from ref. [60a]. Copyright 2019 Wiley. (f) HRTEM image of the lattice-anchored PbS QD: CsPbIBr 2 perovskite hybrid materials showing perfect lattice match. Reprinted with permission from ref. [63]. Copyright 2019 Macmillan Publishers Limited. (g) Schematic fabrication of CsPbI 2 Br films via hot-flow-assisted spin coating approach. Reprinted with permission from ref. [66]. Copyright 2021 Wiley. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. (a) Schematic illustration of band bending and reduced energy offset on CsPbI 2 Br/carbon interfaces based on HTAB modification. Reprinted with permission from ref. [66]. Copyright 2021 Wiley. (b) Band alignment CsPbI 2 Br C-IPSCs based on interface engineering of composite P3HT-QD hole conductor. Reprinted with permission from ref. [94]. Copyright 2023 Elsevier. (c) Schematic illustration of formation of 1D ChPbI 3 on CsPbI 3 surface and elimination of δ-phase by ChI treatment. Reproduced with permission from ref. [14]. Copyright 2023 Wiley. (d) Illustration of the formation of 1D QCDPbI 3 . Reprinted with permission from ref. [96]. Copyright 2023 Royal Society of Chemistry. (e) Schematic of formation of CsPb 2 I 4 Br surface layer and construction of CsPb 2 I 4 Br/ CsPbI 2 Br 2D/3D BHJ. Reprinted with permission from ref. [97]. Copyright 2023 American Chemical Society. (f) Schematic illustration of surface adsorption of H 2 O and O 2 molecules on CsPbI 2 Br surface. Reprinted with permission from ref. [45b]. Copyright 2022 Wiley. (g) Schematic illustration of the defect healing mechanism for the SbI 3 -passivated CsPbBr 3 . Reprinted with permission from ref. [98]. Copyright 2022 American Chemical Society. (h) PL intensity variation of CsPbI 2.6 Br 0.4 films upon elution in chlorobenzene. Reprinted with permission from ref. [61]. Copyright 2023 Wiley. (i) Schematic melting-infiltration process of BN-induced DHI at mild temperature. Reprinted with permission from ref. [12]. Copyright 2022 Wiley. 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. (a) Scheme of carbon paste consisting of carbon black (CB), graphite (Gr), and binder. Reprinted with permission from ref. [22a]. Copyright 2022 Elsevier. (b) Schematic illustration of the inability of sticky carbon paste to penetrate deeply in pinholes of thick film. Reproduced with permission from ref. [105]. Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. (c) Schematic diagram and photographs for the carbon films based on different solvents. Reprinted with permission from ref. [114]. Copyright 2020 Wiley. 
 
 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (1 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (4 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 1864564x, 2024, 11, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202301761 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (6 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (8 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (9 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (11 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (12 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (13 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (14 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (15 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (16 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (17 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 ChemSusChem 2024, 17, e202301761 (18 of 19) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH
Paper #: 9873_2


[a]Conbentional one-step spin-coating method. [b]Two-step and multi-step fabrication method. [c] Perovskite/carbon interface engineering. [d] Crystallization manipulation. [e] ETL modification. [f] Additive engineering. [g] Elemental doping. [h] Modification of carbon electrode. Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovski Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique te film thicknes Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. s (nm) 2021 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 600 1.056 17.47 79 14.6 [d] [10] 2021 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 500 0.8 18.58 71 10.55 [c] [11] 2019 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 300 0.92 16.5 70.3 10.7 [g] [12] 2019 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 300 0.91 15.76 66 9.39 [f] [13] 2018 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 680 0.73 14.65 50 5.31 [g] [14] 2018 CsPbI3 FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI3/C [a] 400 0.79 18.5 65 9.5 [d] [15] 2023 CsPbI2.7Br0.3 FTO/TiO2 r0.3/C /CsPbI2.7B [a] 500 1.14 18.47 69.3 14.6 [f] [16] 2023 CsPbI2.6Br0.4 FTO/TiO2 r0.4/C /CsPbI2.6B Hot spin coating air-assisted 850 1.198 17.16 80.63 16.57 [c] [17] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2.25Br0.75 Br0.75/C /CsPbI2.25 [a] 500 1.141 15.24 71.16 12.72 [e] [18] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2.25Br0.75 Br0.75/C /CsPbI2.25 [a] 500 1.145 16.29 74.1 13.81 [c] [19] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2.2Br0.8 r0.8/C /CsPbI2.2B [a] 500 1.18 15.72 81 15.03 [c] [20] 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 400 1.289 14.96 80.26 15.48 [e] [5] 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/SnO2 /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 400 1.255 14.95 74.3 13.94 [e] [21] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Basic device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite (nm) film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/SnO2 /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 600 1.272 14.98 76.5 14.58 [e] [22] FTO/TiO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.29 14.9 78.25 15.04 [c] [23] FTO/TiO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.3 15.78 68 13.95 [f] [24] 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 900 1.32 14.6 79.11 15.25 [c] [25] FTO/TiO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.29 14.6 77.49 14.59 [e] [26] FTO/SnO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 380 1.22 14.5 72 12.71 [c], [f] [27] FTO/TiO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 600 1.161 16.74 80.2 15.57 [d] [28] 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 700 1.309 14.52 79.11 15.04 [c] [29] 2023 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 800 1.355 14.63 78.5 15.56 [c] [30] FTO/SnO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.26 15.31 64 12.25 [c] [31] FTO/TiO2 2023 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.31 14.82 77.31 15.01 [c] [32] FTO/SnO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 400 1.3 14.3 77.85 14.47 [e] [33] FTO/SnO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 600 1.28 14.6 75.14 14.04 [c] [34] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [b] 1.312 15.7 74 15.24 460 - [35] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.282 14.17 79.01 14.35 [f] [36] 2022 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 900 1.267 14.51 79.81 14.67 [c] [37] 2022 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI2Br /C Hot air-assisted spin coating 900 1.324 (1.317) 14.28 (13.8) 80.73 (80.9) 15.27 (14.7) [d] [38] 2022 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 800 1.267 14.31 80.7 14.63 [g] [39] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 250 1.3 14.28 78.11 14.5 [c] [40] 2022 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 800 1.25 14.47 80.1 14.49 [f] [41] FTO/SnO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 500 1.26 14.7 76.17 14.11 [c] [42] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br Spray Coating 400 1.21 14.26 79.29 14.26 [c] [43] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 400 1.17 14.59 80.32 13.76 [c] [44] FTO/SnO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 500 1.28 14.85 72 13.69 [c] [45] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.28 14.12 78.13 14.14 [c] [46] FTO/TiO2 2022 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 350 1.207 16.62 74 14.84 [c] [47] 
 Table S1 . Continued. S1 Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) FTO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 380 1.23 14.34 70 12.29 [c] [48] FTO/TiO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.214 14.18 75.9 13.08 [g] [49] 2021 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /CsPbI2Br /C Hot air-assisted spin coating 800 1.26 (1.25) 14.10 (13.9) 80.6 (80.5) 14.3 (14.0) [c] [50] FTO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 460 1.27 14.68 75 14.03 [c] [51] FTO/TiO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.22 14.33 75.27 13.19 [e] [52] FTO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 341-375 1.3 14.5 71.02 13.38 [c] [53] 2021 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 800 1.28 14.21 79.4 14.46 [e] [54] FTO/TiO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 500 1.19 14.6 71.02 12.78 [d] [55] ITO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 220 1.205 13.68 68.8 11.34 [c] [56] ITO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [b] 200 1.27 13.42 62 11.2 [f] [57] ITO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.22 14.83 72 13.01 [f] [58] ITO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 500 1.26 14.74 74 13.78 [c] [59] ITO/SnO2 2021 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 310 1.244 13.69 66.9 11.39 [c] [60] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2021 CsPbI2Br FTO/TiO2 /C /CsPbI2Br Hot spin coating air-assisted 800 1.22 14.33 75 13.16 [h] [61] FTO/TiO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.063 14.75 69 10.8 [g] [62] FTO/SnO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.23 15.46 64 12.19 [d] [63] FTO/SnO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.33 14.29 70.96 13.52 [c] [64] FTO/TiO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 600 1.21 14.94 72.59 13.13 [c] [65] FTO/TiO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 250 1.12 11.66 61.24 8.03 [g] [66] FTO/TiO2 2020 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.15 14.39 69.1 11.45 [c] [67] FTO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 200 1.187 13.09 72.12 11.21 [c] [68] FTO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 316 1.29 12.03 70.58 10.95 [c] [69] FTO/TiO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 0.944 14.33 62.5 8.44 [f] [70] ITO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.21 13.35 62 10.01 [c] [71] ITO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] - 1.187 12.91 0.661 10.13 [d] [72] ITO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.2 12.06 72 10.42 [g] [73] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite film thickness (nm) Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. FTO/TiO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.15 13.87 64 10.21 [d] [74] ITO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.21 14.17 68.71 11.78 [e] [75] ITO/SnO2 2019 CsPbI2Br /C /CsPbI2Br [a] 300 1.15 13.54 64.2 10 [d] [76] 2023 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbI1.8Br1. CsPbI1.8Br1. [a] 400 1.33 16.6 69.89 15.43 [d] [77] 2 2 /C 2022 ITO/SnO2/ CsPbI1.5Br1. CsPbI1.5Br1. [a] - 1.24 12.89 65.6 10.54 [c] [78] 5 5 /C FTO/TiO2/ 2022 CsPbIxBr3-x /C CsPbIxBr3-x [b] 1.2 15.68 64 12.04 350 [g] [79] 2023 CsPbIBr2 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 350 1.334 11.33 60.7 9.18 [f] [80] 2023 CsPbIBr2 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 250 1.31 10.96 67.7 10.24 [f] [81] 2023 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.303 11.53 73.7 11.07 [c] [23] 2023 CsPbIBr2 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.29 11.56 69.93 10.43 [c] [82] 2023 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.3 11.56 74.1 11.13 [e] [83] 2023 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.313 11.82 72.32 11.22 [e] [5] 2023 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.26 10.01 64 8.09 [e] [84] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite film thickness (nm) Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. 2023 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.3 11.61 73 11.02 [c] [32] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1.2 1.14 11.06 52.43 6.58 [e] [85] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1.2 1.33 12.12 74.6 12.05 [c] [46] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.308 11.33 71.25 10.57 [f] [86] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.293 11.58 70.86 10.61 [f] [87] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.327 11.95 72.55 11.5 [f] [36] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.32 10.94 73.04 10.54 [c] [88] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.305 10.45 62.6 8.54 [c] [89] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.23 10.33 66.9 8.48 [d] [90] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.323 11.53 72.9 11.12 [d] [91] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.29 11.69 66.97 10.1 [c] [92] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.22 10.74 57 7.47 [c] [93] 2022 CsPbIBr2 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 1 1.29 11.79 69.93 10.65 [g] [94] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/In2S3/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.21 13.35 62 10.01 [c], [e] [95] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite film thickness (nm) Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.32 11.74 64 9.96 [c], [e] [96] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.28 11.67 71.42 10.79 [e] [97] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.19 10.15 56.31 6.79 [d] [98] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.19 9.51 59.01 6.68 [e] [99] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.18 8.7 57 5.9 [d] [100] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.23 8.96 59 6.5 [c] [101] 2022 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.256 11.93 65.4 9.8 [c] [102] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.186 12.3 75 10.94 [d] [103] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200 1.301 11.77 72 11.04 [c] [104] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200 1.32 11.75 65.28 10.12 [c] [105] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200 1.327 11.43 69.7 10.56 [c], [d] [106] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.324 11.53 69.63 10.63 [g] [107] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.284 11.85 69 10.5 [c] [108] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200-300 1.19 10.15 56.31 6.79 [g] [109] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite film thickness (nm) Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 250 1.298 11.53 69.59 10.41 [c] [110] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 400 1.31 11.79 74.47 11.54 [c] [111] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.26 10.86 64.56 8.85 [e] [112] 2021 CsPbIBr2 ITO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 240 1.258 11.51 62.78 9.09 [e] [113] 2021 CsPbIBr2 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.318 11.6 66.75 10.21 [c] [114] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 500 1.08 10.88 64 7.52 [f] [115] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.16 11.55 53.34 7.18 [e] [116] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.19 9.51 51 6.69 [c] [117] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.22 10.28 53.46 6.8 [e] [118] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C drop coating 287 1.09 13.74 56 8.42 [c] [119] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.29 12.03 70.58 10.95 [c] [120] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 250 1.318 11.87 70.84 11.08 [c] [121] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.3 11.25 62.03 9.07 [c] [122] 2021 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.307 11.36 62 9.21 [e] [123] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique Perovskite film thickness (nm) Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.338 11.73 65 10.2 [c] [124] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.253 11.19 65 9.12 - [125] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 400 1.32 11.58 69 10.48 [d] [126] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200-300 1.27 10.99 58 8.1 [d] [127] 2020 CsPbIBr2 ITO/ZnO/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.03 11.6 63 7.6 [e] [128] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200 1.22 10.27 74 9.25 [g] [129] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 400 1.13 10.43 62 7.3 [c] [130] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200 1.37 11.74 67 10.78 [g] [131] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 200-300 1.26 10.87 66 9.04 [e] [132] 2020 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.272 11.57 66 9.71 [e] [133] 2019 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.261 11.8 72 10.71 [e] [134] 2019 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 800 1.258 11.61 62 9.06 - [135] FTO/TiO2/ 2019 CsPbIBr2 SnO2/ [a] 300 1.273 10.91 66 9.31 [e] [136] CsPbIBr2/C 2019 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.323 11.68 70 10.82 [f] [137] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2019 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C Vapor assisted deposition 300 1.289 10.4 65.3 8.76 - [138] 2018 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.142 9.11 63 6.55 [d] [139] 2018 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.245 10.66 69 9.16 [c] [140] 2018 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] - 1.283 11.17 60 8.6 [d] [141] 2018 CsPbIBr2 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [b] 200 0.99 13.15 57 7.36 [g] [142] 2018 CsPbIBr2 ITO/SnO2/ CsPbIBr2/C [a] 300 1.23 8.5 67 7 [c] [143] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.537 6.98 80.1 8.59 [f] [144] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.496 7.34 85.6 9.4 [g] [145] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [a] 790 1.503 7.73 80.6 9.36 [d] [146] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 430 1.48 8.7 80.55 10.37 [f] [147] FTO/Fe2O3@ 2023 CsPbBr3 TiO2/ [b] 300 1.606 7.88 80.85 10.23 [e] [148] CsPbBr3/C 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 480 1.555 7.96 83 10.27 [d] [149] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.58 9.01 75 10.67 [d] [150] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.36 7.01 78.27 7.45 [d] [151] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.38 8.32 71 8.15 [c] [152] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.54 7.57 82.37 9.6 [d] [153] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C Inkjet printing 346 1.512 7.36 81.7 9.09 - [154] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 700 1.57 7.49 81 9.49 [f] [155] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.629 7.74 83.14 10.51 [c] [156] 2023 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 600 1.611 7.87 79.75 10.11 [d] [157] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.65 7.83 82.99 10.71 [f] [158] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.36 8.57 69 8.04 [g] [159] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400-500 1.47 7.18 79 8.34 - [160] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 530 1.57 7.57 77.44 9.19 [c] [161] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 560 1.551 7.95 82 10.09 [c] [162] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.55 6.97 79.27 8.61 [d] [163] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 520 1.657 7.53 78.66 9.69 [c] [164] 2022 CsPbBr3 TTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.41 6.24 73.65 6.48 [e] [165] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.359 8.56 72 8.38 [c] [166] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.382 6.22 71.9 6.18 [h] [167] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/In2S3/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.36 6.78 69 6.42 [d] [168] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 500 1.38 8.81 75 9.11 [f] [169] 2022 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.592 7.36 78.3 9.17 [h] [170] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.574 7.24 79.68 9.08 [c] [171] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 700 1.601 7.69 81.6 10.04 [e] [172] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.602 7.88 80.01 10.1 [c] [173] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] - 1.278 7.8 80.25 8 [c] [174] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400-600 1.611 7.79 80.96 10.16 [c] [175] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 200-300 1.595 7.56 81.41 9.82 [f] [176] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 200 1.44 6.12 70.9 6.25 [d] [177] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400-500 1.532 7.2 85.2 9.4 [c] [178] 2021 CsPbBr3 FTO/SnO2/TiO2 / CsPbBr3/C [b] 600 1.702 7.87 82.7 11.08 [c] [179] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Device structure Fabrication Perovskite Voc Jsc FF PCE Modification Refs. Perovskite technique thickness film (V) (mA/cm 2 ) (%) (%) category (nm) 2020 FTO/SnO2/TiO2 [b] 500 1.7 7.95 79 10.65 [e] [180] CsPbBr3 / CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/SnO2/TiO2 [b] 600 1.629 7.96 80.5 10.44 [e] [181] CsPbBr3 / CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/SnO2/ [b] 446-604 1.622 7.87 80.1 10.71 [d] [182] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 400 1.52 7.55 82.7 9.53 [f] [183] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300 1.357 7.16 72.97 7.09 [h] [184] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300-400 1.23 7.22 78.1 7.22 [e] [185] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/SnO2/ [b] 400 1.29 7.36 65.9 6.27 [d] [186] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 400 1.571 7.47 82.93 9.73 [g] [187] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] - 1.45 6.33 79.19 7.28 [g] [188] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 600 1.23 7.22 78.1 7.22 [e] [189] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 600 1.626 7.73 86.3 10.85 [c] [190] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 200-300 1.19 7.48 81.5 6.12 [d] [191] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 200-300 1.3 7.04 75 6.86 [d] [192] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2020 ITO/TiO2/ [b] 400 1.606 7.64 82.47 10.12 [c] [193] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Year Device structure Fabrication Perovskite Voc Jsc FF PCE Modification Refs. Perovskite technique thickness film (V) (mA/cm 2 ) (%) (%) category (nm) 2020 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300 1.59 6.87 81.21 8.87 [h] [194] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300 1.58 8.81 80 10.34 [g] [195] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300 1.54 7.71 81.1 9.63 [g] [196] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300-400 1.61 7.8 84.4 10.6 [c], [e] [197] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] - 1.36 7.02 68 6.49 [d] [198] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 500-600 1.56 7.3 80.6 9.18 [c] [199] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 400 1.49 8.66 73.2 9.45 [c] [200] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300-400 1.578 7.65 83.06 10.03 [c] [201] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/SnO2/ [b] 400 1.31 8.24 81.4 8.79 [d] [202] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 400-500 1.362 7.92 79.3 8.55 [d] [203] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 300 1.38 7.13 62 6.1 [d] [204] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 400 1.52 8.28 83 10.45 - [205] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [a] 600 1.22 7.4 84.1 7.37 [f] [206] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 2019 FTO/TiO2/ [b] 600 1.615 7.81 85.5 10.79 [c], [g] [207] CsPbBr3 CsPbBr3/C 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2019 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.553 7.56 82.7 9.53 [c] [208] 2019 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 200 1.444 8.54 73.08 9.01 [c] [209] 2019 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.5 7.56 81.9 9.32 [c] [210] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 360 1.57 8.21 79.6 10.26 [g] [211] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 600-800 1.39 8.7 75.5 9.13 [c] [212] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300-400 1.34 6.46 68.04 5.86 [d] [213] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.13 6.79 70 5.38 [d] [214] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 400 1.26 6.62 74.4 6.21 [c] [215] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.431 6.84 78 7.62 [h] [200] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 200 1.47 7.33 76 8.2 [e] [216] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.552 7.73 82.2 9.86 [g] [217] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 250 1.498 7.25 79.6 8.65 [c] [218] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.594 7.48 85.1 10.14 [g] [219] 2018 CsPbBr3 ITO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.458 8.12 82.1 9.72 [c], [d] [220] 
 Table S1 . S1 Continued. Perovskite Year Perovskite Device structure Fabrication technique film thickness Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm 2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Modification category Refs. (nm) 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 200 1.21 5.08 66.7 4.1 [c], [e] [221] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 300 1.522 7.35 84.3 9.43 [e] [222] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 100 1.431 6.54 74.4 7.17 [h] [223] 2018 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 450 1.45 7.47 77.73 8.42 [c] [224] 2016 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 1.29 5.7 68 5 1.29 - [225] 2016 CsPbBr3 FTO/TiO2/ CsPbBr3/C [b] 600 1.24 7.4 73 6.7 - [226]
Paper #: 9873_3
Title: WileyChem 微信公众号是 Wiley 化学类期刊(如德国应用化学，以及欧洲化学会和亚洲化学编辑协会的所有姊 妹期刊)进行学术分享和交流的主要社交媒体渠道之一。 我们出版多种化学内容，包括但不仅限于研究总结、 研究合集、最新要闻、科研访谈、化为学识、期刊介绍、投稿指导。 如果您想了解更多公众号信息，请扫描以 上二维码关注 WileyChem 或通过电子邮件联系我们！ WileyChem is our WeChat outlet for Wiley Chemistry journals such as Angewandte Chemie and all sister journals from Chemistry Europe and Asian Chemical Editorial Society. We publish diverse chemistry contents in Mandarin including research summaries, research collections, news, interviews, chemistry stories, journal introductions, submission guidance, and so on. For more information about WileyChem, please scan the above QR code to follow us or contact us via email!


