Paper #: 10709_1
Title: High-Efficiency Inverted Perovskite Solar Cells via In Situ Passivation Directed Crystallization
Lead halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have emerged as one of the influential photovoltaic technologies with promising cost-effectiveness. Though with mild processabilities to massive production, inverted PSCs have long suffered from inferior photovoltaic performances due to intractable defective states at boundaries and interfaces. Herein, an in situ passivation (ISP) method is presented to effectively adjust crystal growth kinetics and obtain the well-orientated perovskite films with the passivated boundaries and interfaces, successfully enabled the new access of high-performance inverted PSCs. The study unravels that the strong yet anisotropic ISP additive adsorption between different facets and the accompanied additive engineering yield the high-quality (111)-orientated perovskite crystallites with superior photovoltaic properties. The ISP-derived inverted perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have achieved remarkable power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) of 26.7% (certified as 26.09% at a 5.97 mm 2 active area) and 24.5% (certified as 23.53% at a 1.28 cm 2 active area), along with decent operational stabilities.
Introduction Lead halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) exhibited the promising cost-effectiveness to be considered as massive photovoltaic technologies.  [1, 2]  In recent years, PSCs have achieved rapid DOI: 10.1002/adma.202408101 progress in improving power conversion efficiencies (PCEs).  [3]  Among the studied single-junction architecture, inverted PSCs with planar heterojunction can be manufactured at mild processing conditions, but suffered from the inferior photovoltaic performance.  [4] [5] [6] [7]  It is frequently observed that polycrystalline perovskite films, when grown atop planar hole transport layers (HTLs), consisted of mainly granular crystallites possessing a notable amount of boundary and interface defects.  [8] [9] [10] [11] [12]  These defects, inducing recombination losses,  [13] [14] [15] [16]  hindered the excitonic and charge dynamics of inverted PSCs. Recently, encouraging efforts have been dedicated. For instance, additives have been introduced to primarily modulate perovskite boundaries.  [10, 13, 17]  Bifunctional additives, such as 4-guanidinobenzoic acid hydrochloride (GBAC) and butylphosphonic acid 4-ammonium chloride (4-ABPACl) were employed to modulate perovskite crystallization, meanwhile serving as linkers between grains.  [18, 19]  In addition, selfassembled molecules, particularly those with acid groups, have been disclosed as effective anode modifiers for high-performance inverted PSCs.  [20] [21] [22] [23] [24]  Though exciting progresses being achieved, there still remain strong needs to develop integrative approaches for not only addressing interfacial challenges but also accessing high-quality perovskite films. Herein, we developed an in situ passivation (ISP) method allows for fabricating the well-orientated perovskite films with the simultaneously passivated boundaries and interfaces, successfully enabled the new access to high-performance inverted PSCs. We unraveled that, during solution-to-solid transition, the strong yet anisotropic ISP additive adsorption between different facets and the accompanied additive engineering are effective to direct the crystal growth along specific orientations, and to yield the well-orientated and passivated crystallites, which possess superior photovoltaic properties to the regular perovskites without additives. Simultaneously, ISP additives also modified the buried metal oxide interfaces to enhance charge extraction for inverted PSCs. As results, the ISP derived inverted PSCs achieved the remarkable PCEs of 26.7% (certified as 26.09% from the reverse scan at a 5.97 mm 2 active area), and 24.5% (certified as 23.53% from the reverse scan at a 1.28 cm 2 active area), representing the topperforming inverted PSCs to date along with decent operational stabilities under one sun equivalent and ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, respectively. We disclosed that ISP devices consisting of the (111)-orientated perovskites possessed intrinsically low trap densities at carrier capture cross-section value (𝜎) of 8.70 × 10 -26 cm 2 , largely lower than that of control devices without additives (1.28 × 10 -24 cm 2 ). Moreover, we have successfully extended the ISP method to fabricate a range of efficient devices, including 1.76 eV wide-bandgap (WBG) perovskite, as well as bare indium tin oxide (ITO) based inverted PSCs. Overall, this work offers a facile yet robust method for fabricating high-quality orientated perovskite films toward high-performance perovskite photovoltaics. 
 Results and Discussion As described in Figure  1a , in situ passivation directed perovskite crystallization was newly accomplished through the employment of molecular additives that selectively and reversibly interact with ammoniums, and ammonium-rich facets via hydrogen bonding and ionic pair interactions to affect crystallization processes. We disclosed that the polarized additives with intensified intermolecular interactions (strong dipole, 𝜇 and dimer binding energy, E B ) are critical for the yield of oriented perovskite crystallites, which are intrinsically different from the granular crystallites obtained from the regular growth of perovskites without additives. We selected to examine a series of ISP additives (Figure  1a ), including 1-butanephosphonic acid (BPA), phenethyl phosphonic acid (PPA), [2-(3,6-dimethoxy-9H-carbazol-9-yl)ethyl] phosphonic acid (MeO-2PACz),  [25]  and (4-(diphenylamino)phenethyl) phosphonic acid (LS2).  [26]  These additives bear the same ethyl phosphonic acid as an anchoring group, while varying terminal groups to modulate the molecular properties. Hydrogen bonding interactions between the ISP additives and formamidinium iodide (FAI) in solution were first confirmed by proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR, Figure  S1 , Supporting Information). For example, the equivalent MeO-2PACz into the FAI solution in deuterated dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO-d 6 ) significantly changed the chemical shift (𝛿) of ammonium and methylene protons for FA group, indicating the formation of hydrogen bonding assisted ionic pairs (Figure  1b ). On the other hand, the equivalent lead iodide (PbI 2 ) into MeO-2PACz solution did not alter the 1 H  
 NMR signals for additives, suggesting Lewis acid-base interaction between them is negligible in DMSO solvent. Note the presence of additives can impact on the crystalline qualities of synthesized perovskite films.  [27] [28] [29] [30]  The underlying mechanism relates closely to the complicated growth kinetics of halide perovskites, wherein the interactions between additives and precursor components, facets of nucleuses or intermediate phases are expected to play important roles. We speculate that the changes in additive structures can tune such interactions, which, in turn, adjust their capabilities to regulate the crystallization and surface passivation for perovskites. Theoretical calculations (Figure  1c ; Table  S1 , Supporting Information) illustrate the chosen ISP additives are preferentially adsorbed to ammoniumrich (100) facets, wherein the adsorption energy of E ads (100) is greater than E ads (111) on (  111 ) facets (Figures  S2  and S3 , Sup-porting Information). Presence of different bonding intensities between additives and facets of crystal nucleus can vary the detachment processes of additives, leading to a slowdown in the mass transport of solute ions to specific facets. The anisotropic adsorption behavior of additives toward different facets may influence the growth rates of these facets, thereby influencing the polymorphism and orientation of the resulting crystallites. This can be evidenced by the varied diffraction intensities of the (100) and (111) planes after introduction of the additives, as indicated by the increased A 111 /A 100 area ratio of X-ray diffraction patterns (Figure  1d ; Figure  S4 , Supporting Information). The transition of polyhedral perovskite crystallites into the vertically (111)-orientated rods was clearly observed after gradual introduction of ISP additives into precursor solutions, from scanning electron microscope (SEM). As shown in Figure  S5  (Supporting Information), SEM characterization further revealed the presence of ISP additives effectively altered the polymorphism and orientation of the resulting perovskite crystallites. Perovskites with ISP additives exhibited features of vertically orientated rods with the relatively uniform grain sizes, which are quite different to the polyhedral features of granular crystallites in perovskite films without additives (atop of NiO x with or without MeO-2PACz). Among the studied ISP additives, MeO-2PACz with the largest calculated adsorption energy of E ads (111) (Figure  1c ) reduces crystallization rate and improve crystallinity of the (111) facets, which accords with its highest A 111 /A 100 area ratio, i.e., the highest quality of (111)-orientated perovskite crystallites. At the same time MeO-2PACz with the strongest 𝜇 (3.87 D) shows the largest dimer binding energy E B (-0.708 eV) (Figure  S6 , Supporting Information), which corresponds to a strongest steric hindrance effect during the crystallization process. The photovoltaic performance of ISP derived devices is coincided with the (111)orientated crystallization for perovskite crystallites containing of different additives (Figure  1d ). Note that the (111)-facet dominated perovskite crystallites possessed the superior photovoltaic properties and stabilities to other facets.  [31, 32]  We thus provide a promising pathway through modulation of the ISP additives to effectively optimize the growth orientation and control perovskite crystallization, thereby influencing the photovoltaic properties of corresponding PSCs. To understand the ISP additives directed perovskite crystallization, we recorded time-resolved ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) absorption spectra of perovskite films as a function of annealing time. As shown in Figure  2a ,b, the presence of additives has elongated the perovskite formation processes, revealed that target films with MeO-2PACz took longer transition than that of control, to reach the maximum intensities of perovskite peaks at 740 nm. More importantly, the presence of ISP additives significantly altered the polymorphism of perovskites. SEM revealed that target perovskites consisted of vertically orientated rods with the relatively uniform grain sizes, which are quite different to the polyhedral features of granular crystallites in control films without additives (Figure  2c, d ). As aforementioned the (111)-orientated rods in target perovskites are closely related to the anisotropic additive adsorption on different facets. The less preferential adsorption to ammonium-poor (111) facets can be attributed to the weaker binding strength between additive proton and halogen of perovskites (as indicated by the longer bond lengths, weaker charge transfer and interstitial charge overlapping), along with the weakened hydrogen bonding between oxygen of additive and ammoniums (Figure  2e ). It was also confirmed through the time dependent XRD patterns (Figure  2f ; Figure  S7 , Supporting Information). Without additives, the control perovskites directly transformed into the perovskite black-phase within 30 s upon 50 °C annealing. Interestingly, target samples displayed the progressive transitions under the influence of additives, with first perovskite formation from 0 to 30 s, and then stepwise increase in (111) plane intensities for the orientated crystallization. Moreover, highresolution transmission electron microscope-energy dispersive spectroscopy (TEM-EDS), as depicted in Figure  S8  (Supporting Information), revealed that the phosphine (P) element signals, representing for additives, were detected at the (100) facets of Table  1 . Photovoltaic parameters of inverted PSCs under AM1.5G 100 mW cm -2 illumination. perovskites (characterized as the lattice distance of 6.6 Å  [31]  ). The above analysis for the first time provides a comprehensive description of the orientation control of perovskites under the influence of ISP additives, showing the strong and anisotropic additive adsorption toward different facets directed the orientated perovskite crystallization. The differences in perovskite polymorphisms led to the different excitonic and charge dynamics in the corresponding photovoltaic cells. V OC [V] J SC [mA cm -2 ] J SC cal [mA cm -2 ] FF [%] PCE [%] Inverted PSCs were evaluated in architecture of glass/ITO/nickel oxide (NiO x )/perovskite/C 60 /BCP/Ag, wherein ISP additives were individually introduced into perovskite precursor solutions. The two dimensional passivation of perovskite upper surface was conducted based on our previous work.  [33]  The best-performing devices were achieved with 3 mg/ml MeO-2PACz additive (Figures  S9  and S10 , and Tables  S2  and S3 , Supporting Information). Figure  3a  presents the current density-voltage (J-V) curves of these devices under AM 1.5G simulated solar illumination, and the corresponding photovoltaic parameters are summarized in Table  1 . The target inverted PSCs (referred to as perovskites with ISP additives of MeO-2PACz), tested under a nitrogen atmosphere without encapsulation, obtained a remarkable PCE of 26.7%, with an open circuit voltage (V OC ) of 1.22 V, and a fill factor (FF) of 84.6%, representing the best-performed inverted PSCs so far. And the target device also achieved a PCE of 24.5% for a 128 mm 2 active area, with a certified reverse PCE of 23.53% (Figures  S11  and S12 , Supporting Information). The encapsulated inverted PSCs were independently certified by Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology (SIMIT) as having PCEs of 26.09% (Figure  S12 , Supporting Information). The encapsulation involving the UV light curing of adhesives likely caused a slight reduction in performance of cells. This achievement demonstrates the impressive enhancements compared to the PCE of 20.4% for control devices (referred to perovskites without additives) with a V OC of 1.11 V, and an FF of 78.9%. Notably, as shown in Figures  S13  and S4  (Supporting Information), target devices also outperformed inverted PSCs with only coating of MeO-2PACz onto NiO x layer that, without ISP additive into precursor solution, exhibited the PCE of 24.4% (with a V OC of 1.18 V, and an FF of 85.2%). Different to the routinely interfacial modification with phosphonic molecules, ISP additives into precursor solution facilitated not only high-quality and orientated perovskites, but also the improved hole selective interface, thereby leading to high-performance solar cells. The external quantum efficiency (EQE) measurements indicate that the target devices exhibit the enhanced photon response across the entire spectra to the control devices, which match the measured short-circuit current density (J sc ) values (Figure  3b ). The steady-state power outputs (SPO) are 24.8% for the target PSCs, outperforming the 19.2% of control devices (Figure  S14 , Supporting Information). The statistical results are presented in Figure  3c  and Table  1 , indicating the good reproducibility of the ISP-derived devices. Furthermore, this ISP method was successfully extended to fabricate high-performance wide-bandgap (WBG) PSCs, achieving an impressive PCE of 21.4% and a V OC of 1.34 V. This also represents the highest reported efficiency among PSCs with a bandgap of ≈1.76 eV (Figures  S15  and S16 , Tables  S5  and S7 , Supporting Information). In addition, ISP method allows passivating the buried metal oxide interface, which was further verified by the fabrication efficient PSCs on bare ITO substrates with PCE of 24.7% (Figure  S17  and Tables  S8  and S9 , Supporting Information). These results clearly demonstrated that ISP derived PSCs possess superior photovoltaic properties to control PSCs without additives. We further evaluated the electroluminescence of the derived PSCs operating in light-emitting diode mode (Figure  3d ), revealing that an EQE EL of 0.34% for control devices versus 10.7% of target devices. The improved EQE EL values help mitigating the nonradiative voltage losses, from 147 mV (control) to 58 mV (target). In addition, the passivation of the hole-selective metal oxide interface with ISP additives was confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure  S18 , Supporting Information). It, such as MeO-2PACz with large dipole, effectively adjusted the energetic alignments at hole-selective interface to minimize energy barrier (Figures S19-S21, Supporting Information), facilating hole extraction meanwhile also further mitgating voltage losses for ISP devices. These combined results affirmed that the ISP additives not only regulate the perovskite crystallization but also passivating the buried hole-selective interface, thereby improving photovoltaic performance of inverted PSCs. Further, the operational stability of inverted PSCs was evaluated under one sun equivalent light illumination and UV irradiation, respectively. The ISP derived PSCs demonstrated decent photostability, maintaining 80% of initial PCE after ≈1000 h of continuous one sun equivalent light illumination. In contrast, the control devices showed a rapid decay in PCEs after less than 100 h of continuous light illumination (Figure  3e ). Moreover, the target devices exhibited excellent UV stabilities, retaining 80% of the initial PCEs after a total 60 kWh m -2 dose of UV irradiation. This is much better than the control devices, which declined to below 80% of the initial PCEs after a cumulative 20 kWh m -2 dose of UV irradiation. These improvements can be attributed to ISP strategies produced high-quality perovskites with the mitigated boundary and interfacial defects, meanwhile passivating the reactive metal oxide interface,  [26, 34]  facilitating the access of best-performing inverted PSCs (Figure  3f ; Tables  S10  and S11 , Supporting Information). In order to elucidate the in situ passivation of perovskites via additive treatment, we employed atomic force microscopybased infrared spectroscopy (AFM-IR) and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) to probe the distribution of additives (MeO-2PACz as example) in perovskite films. By monitoring the infrared stretching peaks of 1708 cm -1 of C═N in FA  [35]  and 944 cm -1 of P-O group in additives, we identified the top-surface distribution of additives mainly around perovskite grain boundaries (green trace, Figure  4a ; Figure  S22 , Supporting Information). And TOF-SIMS also showed that the spatial distribution of additives preferably accumulated at the top and bottom surfaces of perovskite layers, wherein the exaggerated surface and interface defects are passivated (Figure  4b ). Photoluminescence (PL) and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) were further recorded to reveal the target films on glass substrates exhibited higher PL intensity and a significantly longer lifetime than control films from front (perovskite) side. Additionally, the target films on NiO x HTL exhibited stronger PL quenching and shorter average PL decay lifetime (𝜏) than those of control films without additives (Figures  S23  and S24  and Table  S12 , Supporting Information).These results proved ISP treatments helped yielding high-quality perovskite films with reduced trap states and passviated the buried interfaces for effcient hole extraction. The traps densities of corresponding devices were further characterized by thermal admittance spectroscopy (TAS) measurements. Figure  4c  and Figures S25-S27 (Supporting Information) showed the presence of two trap states in the control devices without additives, with energy levels of 0.47 ± 0.04 eV (T A ) and 0.40 ± 0.01 eV (T B ). Here, T A can be attributed to the anti-site defects of cations in perovskites, while T B is related to interstitials of Acations.  [36] [37] [38]  Interestingly, the target devices with additives displayed mainly T A state (with a shallower depth of 0.38 ± 0.01 eV), which would be ascribed to the presence of ISP additives effectively regulate the ammonium cations at perovskite boundaries, passivating the interstitial trap state. It is worth noting that the capture cross-section (𝜎) was significantly decreased from 1.28 × 10 -24 cm 2 (control) to 8.70 × 10 -26 cm 2 (target), indicating the charge recombination probabilities in target inverted PSCs were largely suppressed. 
 Conclusion In summary, this work elucidated that in situ passivation strategy is effective to achieve high-quality perovskites with the simultaneously passivated boundaries and interfaces, leading to high-performance perovskite solar cells with remarkable efficiencies. We unraveled that the strong yet anisotropic of additive adsorption to different facets and the accompanied additive engineering effectively directed the growth of (111)-orientated perovskite crystallites with the mitigated defects, compared to the regular perovskites without additives. Simultaneously, polar ISP additives largely passivated the buried metal oxide interfaces to enhance charge extraction. As results, through simple modulation of additives to direct the perovskite crystallization and interface passivation, inverted PSCs have obtained with a maximum efficiency of 26.7% (active area of 5.97 mm 2 ) and 24.5% (active area of 1.28 cm 2 ), respectively. The ISP method can be further extended to fabricate a range of efficient devices, including 1.76 eV wide-bandgap perovskite, as well as bare indium tin oxide based inverted PSCs. Overall, by introducing deliberately designed polar ISP additives with anisotropic adsorption on different facets of crystals, our work provides an effective yet robust method for yielding high-quality orientated perovskite crystallites and constructing high-performance perovskite photovoltaics. Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. In situ passivation directed perovskite crystallization. a) Molecular structure, electrostatic potential map and dipole moment of ISP additives, and schematic illustration of ISP directing perovskite crystallization. b) Interaction between ISP additives and FAI (top) and 1 H NMR spectra in DMSOd 6 (bottom). c) Adsorption energy on (111) facet (E ads (111) ) and the dimer binding energy (E B ) of each studied additive. d) Photovoltaic efficiency and degree of orientated crystallization (A (111)/(100) ) for perovskite crystallites containing of different additives. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. Perovskite crystallization without and with additives. a) In situ UV-vis absorption spectra. b) The evolution of absorption intensities at the wavelength of 740 nm. c) SEM images. d) Grain size distribution. e) The most energetically favorable structures of MeO-2PACz molecule absorbed on (100) (left) and (111) (right) facets of FAPbI 3 . The corresponding charge density difference (upper panel, with isosurface value of 0.0015 e Bohr -3 ) and electron localization function (lower panel) are given in the interaction region between the phosphate group and perovskite surface; f) The evolution of (111) peaks in XRD. 
 standard deviation were obtained from 20 devices. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Photovoltaic performances of inverted PSCs. a) J-V curves and b) EQE spectra of inverted PSCs without (control) and with additives (target). c) The distribution of PCE and V OC values. d) EQE EL spectra of PSCs operating in light-emitting diode mode. e) photostability of PSCs at the maximum power point (MPP) under one sun equivalent illumination, and bar figure representing the UV irradiation doses for PSCs reaching the 80% initial PCEs. f) Statistical diagram of the PCEs from recently reported single junction inverted PSCs. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. In situ passivation of perovskite boundaries and interfaces. a) AFM-IR images. b) TOF-SIMS depth profiles and c) the trap density of states of perovskites without and with additives. 
			 Adv. Mater. 2024, 36, 2408101 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 
			 Adv. Mater. 2024, 36, 2408101 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2408101 (4 of 8) 15214095, 2024, 41, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202408101 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Mater. 2024, 36, 2408101 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2408101 (7 of 8) 15214095, 2024, 41, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202408101 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Mater. 2024, 36, 2408101 © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 2408101 (8 of 8) 15214095, 2024, 41, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202408101 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
