Paper #: 3495_1
Title: Lewis Base Passivation Mediates Charge Transfer at Perovskite Heterojunctions
Understanding interfacial charge transfer processes such as trap-mediated recombination and injection into charge transport layers (CTLs) is crucial for the improvement of perovskite solar cells. Herein, we reveal that the chemical binding of charge transport layers to CH3NH3PbI3 defect sites is an integral part of the interfacial charge injection mechanism in both n-i-p and p-i-n architectures. Specifically, we use a mixture of optical and X-Ray photoelectron spectroscopy to show that binding interactions occur via Lewis base interactions between electron donating moieties on hole transport layers and the CH3NH3PbI3 surface. We then correlate the extent of binding with an improvement in the yield and longer lifetime of injected holes with transient absorption spectroscopy. Our results show that passivation-mediated charge transfer has been occurring undetected in some of the most common perovskite configurations and elucidate a key design rule for the chemical structure of next-generation CTLs.
TOC 1. Introduction Over the last decade, hybrid organic-inorganic perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have set themselves apart from other photovoltaic technologies with efficiencies over 25%,  1  rivalling the best inorganic materials. At the same time, their low-cost solution process lends them an energy payback time more similar to organic photovoltaics.  2  This extraordinary class of materials have the chemical formula, ABX3 where A [= Cs, methylammonium, formamidinium] and B (= Pb, Sn) are cations and X (=I, Br) is an anion. PSCs usually consist of this layer -most commonly in its CH3NH3PbI3 (MAPbI3) form -sandwiched between two charge transport layers (CTLs) that aid the separation of electrons and holes towards the external circuit. Many of the short comings of PSCs can be traced back to structural defects. Remarkably, harmful defects that form electronic states within the band-gap -i.e., traps -are found at relatively low concentrations in hybrid perovskites compared to other solution processed technologies,  3  but the termination of crystal symmetry at the surface and grain boundaries inevitably leads to a significant population at the interfaces with the CTLs.  [4] [5] [6]  Such defects limit the open-circuit voltage (VOC) in MAPbI3 to below the theoretical maximum of 1.33 V, ultimately limiting device power conversion efficiency (PCE).  7  Moreover, it is well known that perovskites are rapidly degraded in the presence of oxygen and light.  [8] [9] [10] [11]  We demonstrated that this happens because O2 reacts with photoexcited electrons after adsorbing at iodide vacancies, forming highly aggressive superoxide (O2 -) species.  12  Consequently, defect management has come to the fore as an effective solution to improve both the stability and overall device PCE of PSCs.  13  In 2014, Noel et al showed that Lewis bases such as thiophene and pyridine could be used to coordinate to unsaturated Pb 2+ ions (i.e. iodide vacancies) at the surface and grain boundaries of MAPbI3.  14  The resulting dative bond between the electron donating moiety on the Lewis base and Pb 2+ ions balances the positive charge that would otherwise trap electrons. Since then, this principle, known as passivation, has been expanded to include other small molecules and inert polymers.  [15] [16] [17] [18] [19]  This active sub-field has also successfully developed passivation strategies for negatively charged defects such as undercoordinated I -, PbI3 -antisites and A cation vacancies with myriad molecules including caffeine.  13, 20  CTL selection has been another important strand of perovskite research after Kim et al introduced the first solid-state PSCs in 2012.  21  Subsequently, research in this area has revealed a number of desirable properties for CTLs including energetic alignment to the perovskite layer, charge mobility and the addition of dopants.  [22] [23] [24]  Moreover, a small number of groups have reported passivation from charge transport layers including fullerenes,  25, 26  n-type  27  and p-type molecules.  28, 29  While these studies have demonstrated that passivation from CTLs can mitigate non-radiative recombination, ion migration and chemical instability in the perovskite layer, no one has yet addressed the impact that such interactions have on charge injection at the interfaces. An outcome of Marcus theory is that the rate of electron transfer is partly determined by the nature of the intervening medium between donor and acceptor. In other words, the rate of transfer through bonds far exceeds that through space. We therefore posit that interactions between CTLs and the perovskite surface should enhance interfacial charge injection. While correlation between bonding strength and charge transfer was shown in 2001 to occur in Lewis acid-base complexes,  30  few studies have broached this subject in the field of perovskite or related solar cells. Seok and co-workers highlighted the important role of coordination interactions between the HTL and Sb2S3 in quantum dots.  31  Additionally, Bi et al suggested that the decreased coupling between MAPbI3 and spiro-OMeTAD on account of its twisted spiro centre results in longer recombination lifetimes at the MAPbI3/HTL interface relative to HTLs that form a 'face-on' configuration.  32  More recently, Jung et al achieved a remarkable PCE of 22% in P3HT-based n-i-p solar cells after functionalisation of (FAPbI3)0.95(MAPbI3)0.05 (FA = Formamidinium) with n-hexyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (HTAB).  33  They attributed this improvement in part to the improved contact between perovskite/P3HT due to alkyl-alkyl Van der Waal interactions, which enhance hole injection. Despite the excellent insight from these studies, conclusions tend to be drawn from macroscopic device performance and a limited range of materials, which cannot directly and universally link absorber/CTL interactions with charge injection yield. Therefore, in this study we use a combination of transient absorption spectroscopy (TAS) and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy as an interface specific probe to show that binding interactions at MAPbI3/CTL junctions mediate the charge injection process in both the n-i-p and p-i-n configurations for six MAPbI3/CTL combinations. We demonstrate that such effects -while negligible at the high fluences usually associated with TAS -are critical at the relatively low fluences relevant to operational conditions of 1 Sun. This partially explains the success of commercial CTLs such as PTAA and fullerene derivatives in contemporary PSCs and sets a precedent for the design of next-generation CTLs.    1a  show that all three HTLs contain Lewis base passivating moieties, with PTAA and PTPD containing tertiary amine groups and P3HT containing a thiophene group. These functional groups have been shown to passivate iodide vacancies in MAPbI3,  14  which in turn are known to provide sites for non-radiative recombination and superoxide formation.  12, 34  When interfaced with MAPbI3, all three HTLs are expected to drive efficient hole injection on account of the favourable interfacial energy offset in all cases, as shown in Fig.  1b .  22  The values for the HOMO and band energies of the HTLs and MAPbI3 were obtained from separate photoelectron spectroscopy studies in the literature (details in Table  S1 ), where the different materials were investigated in isolation. We note that contacting the individual layers will alter the absolute values of the HOMO and band energies of MAPbI3 and HTL to a degree. However, the in-situ energetic alignment in the specific case of MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = PTAA, PTPD and P3HT) has been measured by Stolterfoht et al, who report a similar picture to that shown in Fig.  1b  with PTAA and PTPD being better aligned to MAPbI3 than P3HT.  35  Samples were prepared via a one-step deposition of MAPbI3 as reported elsewhere,  36  and HTLs were spin-coated on top of MAPbI3 in order to form a 30 nm ± 3 nm thick layer (Fig S1 , 

Table  S2 ). Further details of sample processing can be found in the Experimental section. 
 Results and Discussion We also note that PTAA, PTPD and P3HT have similar wetting properties and thus we discard the role of surface energy variations in our below results. 37 To confirm passivation of MAPbI3 by the HTLs, we looked to photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy. Fig.  2a  shows the PL spectra of MAPbI3 and MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = PTAA, PTPD, P3HT) samples (Raw spectra in Fig  S2 ). In the case of MAPbI3, peak emission was observed at 𝜆 !"#$ = 764 nm due to radiative recombination of electrons and holes across the 1.6 eV band gap. In the case where MAPbI3 was interfaced with PTAA or PTPD, a blue-shift was observed. Such blue-shift in the MAPbI3 emission has been attributed to passivation of emissive trap-states at the band edges.  26  The rationale for this is that in highly trapped films, emission occurs on average from states closer together in energy due to the occupancy of trap states (Fig.  2a , red arrow). However, if passivation occurs, those trap-states cannot be filled, and emission takes place between states that are on average further apart in energy. 
 1. 2 Passivation from Hole Transport Layers in n-i-p Films The result is a blue-shift in the PL spectra (Fig.  2a , blue arrow). We found no change when P3HT was deposited on MAPbI3, suggesting minimal passivation of band-edge trap-states in this case. This gives some indication that the passivation from the triarylamine HTLs is stronger than with P3HT. To further confirm this, we also measured the steady-state PL spectra after excitation at 450 nm via the bottom ('substrate') and top ('film') sides respectively, results in Fig S3 . Given the small penetration depth (< 15 nm) of this wavelength of light in the MAPbI3 film, such measurements allow for observation of local changes in recombination behaviour. We find that in the case of MAPbI3, the 'substrate' and 'film' PL spectra are perfectly overlaid, suggesting that the trap-state density at either location is similar. This behaviour is mirrored in the case of MAPbI3/P3HT, suggesting the P3HT layer has little impact on the trap-state density. On the other hand, in the case of MAPbI3/PTAA and MAPbI3/PTPD, the 'film' PL is significantly blue shifted compared to the 'substrate', indicating that some passivation is occurring at the MAPbI3/HTL interface. Encouraged by this finding, we decided to isolate the passivation effect from the electrondonating moieties present on the HTLs by treating MAPbI3 with their "pseudo-monomers". We selected triallylamine to simulate the tertiary amine groups on both PTAA and PTPD, and thiophene to simulate the thiophene group on P3HT. Their structures are indicated in Fig.  2b . We note that the ideal choice for the pseudo-monomer of the poly(triarylamines) would be a small-molecule arylamine such as triarylamine or one of its derivatives. However, such small molecules are routinely used as hole conductors (Ionisation potential ~ 5.5 eV) in hybrid photovoltaics and as such it would be impossible to decouple passivation from injection.  38  Therefore, we used triallylamine (ionisation potential ~ 7.6 eV)  39  to ensure that hole injection could be ruled out of any change in PL intensity. Steady-state PL (Fig.  2c  inset) shows that triallylamine passivation increases the integrated PL intensity by 65%, while thiophene passivation has a more incremental effect (+16%). Interestingly, triallylamine passivation also results in a significant blue-shift of the MAPbI3 emission, in agreement with that obtained for PTAA and PTPD in Fig.  2a . These findings are backed up by time-resolved PL (TRPL) studies measured at low excitation fluence (0.11 nJ cm -2 ), presented in Fig.  2c . Unpassivated MAPbI3 exhibits a rapid PL decay typical of charge trapping at the surface and grain boundaries as found elsewhere.  22, 40  Addition of both triallylamine and thiophene leads to the formation of a second, longer-lived decay component associated with trap-mediated recombination in the bulk of the perovskite film. The appearance of this feature after treatment with the "pseudomonomers" is indicative of passivation of the perovskite surface. Moreover, this longer-lived component is more pronounced after triallylamine rather than thiophene treatment, suggesting the extent of passivation is greater in the former case. Both the steady-state and time-resolved PL studies of MAPbI3 treated with the pseudomonomers provide strong evidence for the superiority of tertiary amine, relative to thiophene, functional groups in passivating iodide vacancies. This is in line with Noel et al, who also found that basic nitrogen groups -in their case from pyridine -are more capable than thiophene groups at passivating the MAPbI3 surface.  14  Moreover, we also measured the PL dynamics of MAPbI3 films treated with 3-hexylthiophene (3HT), the exact monomer of P3HT, with details in Fig S4 . In this case, we observe no enhancement in the PL decay lifetime, suggesting that trap-state passivation is minimal. We suggest that while pure thiophene is capable of passivating the MAPbI3 surface, albeit less than triallylamine, 3HT is incapable of doing so, potentially due to steric hindrance associated with the bulky hexylthiophene chain. A similar mechanism was put forward by Noel et al to explain the lack of passivation in the case of tert-butylpyridine, even when pure pyridine was highly effective. 14 We further probed the extent of passivation with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Fig  S5  shows the C 1s spectra for PTAA, PTPD and P3HT deposited on top of MAPbI3. The spectra agree well with those in the literature for pure HTL films, suggesting that the HTL layer is well formed and free from contaminants or degradation products.  [41] [42] [43]  Next, we investigated the core-level spectra of the N 1s (PTAA and PTPD) or S 2p (P3HT) orbitals, as these atomic positions within the polymers were suspected of being responsible for the passivating interactions observed in Fig.  2a . We therefore expected an increase in binding energy, 𝐸 ! of the passivating element upon moving from the HTL bulk to probing the HTL/MAPbI3 interface. In order to measure this, we prepared MAPbI3 films with 'thick' (30 nm) and 'thin' (<10 nm) HTL overlayers to probe the bulk and interface respectively, manipulating the strong surface sensitivity of XPS. The resulting core-level spectra are summarised in Fig.  2d-f . The N 1s core-level spectra of MAPbI3/PTAA in Fig.  2d  show two important features. The high binding energy peak at 401.05 eV is assigned to N in MAPbI3  44  and the low binding energy peak at 398.90 eV is assigned to N in PTAA.  42  We observe a similar spectrum for MAPbI3/PTPD samples (Fig.  2e ) with the N 1s (MAPbI3) and N 1s (PTPD) peaks centred at 401.25 eV and 399.05 eV respectively. Interestingly, the N 1s peaks associated with PTAA and PTPD were found at higher binding energies (399.10 and 399.25 eV respectively) in the thinner samples i.e. when the MAPbI3/HTL interface was targeted. This suggests an interaction between the N atoms of the triarylamine HTLs and the MAPbI3 surface. The S 2p core-level spectra for MAPbI3/P3HT samples are given in Fig.  2f . The spectra are readily fitted to a 2p1/2/2p3/2 doublet from the S-atoms in the thiophene unit, with the two components centred at 164.40 and 163.20 eV respectively.  45  We also observed a weaker contribution centred at 166.0 eV, which has been attributed previously to slight oxidation of the polymer surface.  45  For the purpose of measuring the relative binding energy of the thick and thin films, we monitored the change in the 2p3/2 peak. In contrast to the PTAA-and PTPD-capped MAPbI3 films, no increase in binding energy was observed upon moving from the P3HT surface to the MAPbI3/P3HT interface. The interaction between the different HTLs and the MAPbI3 surface is summarised in Table  1 , which shows the change in binding energy, ∆𝐸 ! for the three HTLs as a function of distance from the MAPbI3 interface. PTAA and PTPD show evidence of strong interfacial interactions with a ∆𝐸 ! of 0.20 ± 0.1 eV in both cases. On the other hand, P3HT demonstrates a less significant interaction with ∆𝐸 ! = 0 ± 0.1 eV. We therefore assert that the weak passivation effect displayed by P3HT is due to the weaker interaction between its thiophene moiety and the MAPbI3 surface. On the other hand, the more significant passivation effect from PTAA and PTPD is underpinned by the relatively strong interfacial interactions between the tertiary amine group and MAPbI3. , and an order of magnitude weaker than the TiO2/MAPbI3/PTAA and TiO2/MAPbI3/PTPD maxima (1600 nm). This is most likely due to the much smaller extinction coefficient of TiO2 relative to the HTL polarons.  46  On the other hand, the TA features and absolute 𝛥𝑂𝐷 of the MAPbI3/HTL films on insulating Al2O3where electron injection is energetically forbidden -closely match those on TiO2. We also note that the observed features closely match those of the chemically oxidised HTLs.  22, 47  Consequently, we can assign the features at 950, 1600 and 1600 nm in the TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = P3HT, PTAA, PTPD) spectra to the hole polarons of P3HT, PTAA and PTPD respectively, formed after injection of photoexcited holes from the MAPbI3 layer. 1. This type of decay is consistent with recombination in systems that contain a significant amount of disorder.  48  Given the complex decay dynamics, we assign an approximate lifetime, 𝜏 )"* as the time taken for ∆𝑂𝐷 to reach 50% of its original value.  48  The better passivation performance of PTAA and PTPD versus P3HT is underlined by the kinetic traces shown in Fig.  3a . It is clear to see that recombination across the MAPbI3/P3HT 
 1. 3. Passivation-Mediated Hole Injection in the n-i-p Architecture interface is faster than in the case of MAPbI3/PTAA or MAPbI3/PTPD. This provides further supporting evidence that PTAA and PTPD have a greater capacity to passivate defects at the MAPbI3 surface thus increasing 𝜏 )"* . We next sought to investigate how the recombination rate and injection yield change with the initial carrier density, 𝑛 in the MAPbI3 layer. The value of 𝑛 can be extracted from the fluence under the assumption that each absorbed photon produces one electron/hole pair (details in Experimental Section). Therefore, by analysing TAS traces across this fluence range we were able to build up a picture of how 𝜏 )"* and ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& vary from 10 15 to 10 18 cm - 3 (~1 to 1000 Suns). Recombination processes at the MAPbI3/HTL interface can be modelled by the following rate equation: - 𝑑𝑛 + 𝑑𝑡 = 𝑘 )"*,-) 𝑛 + + 𝑘 )"*,) 𝑛 + 𝑛 + 𝑘 )"*,. 𝑛 + 𝑛 / (1) where 𝑛 + is the initial density of injected holes on the HTL, 𝑛 is the initial density of electrons in the perovskite layer, 𝑘 )"*,-) , 𝑘 )"*,) and 𝑘 )"*,. are the 1 st , 2 nd and 3 rd order recombination rate coefficients. However, in the specific case where all photoexcited electrons in the MAPbI3 layer are trapped (i.e. 𝑛 = 0), Equation  1 becomes: - 𝑑𝑛 + 𝑑𝑡 = 𝑘 )"*,-) 𝑛 + (2) We can define an overall recombination rate, 𝑘 )"* , as 1/𝜏 )"* -the lifetime extracted from the transient absorption decay. Crucially, in the limit of trap-mediated, monomolecular recombination at the MAPbI3/HTL interface, 𝑘 )"* will be independent of 𝑛, in line with Equation  2 . On the other hand, if traps are well-passivated and there is a significant electron density, 𝑛, in the MAPbI3 layer, recombination will also ensue via bimolecular recombination (and potentially Auger for 𝑛 > 10 18 cm -3 ) and 𝑘 )"* will be dependent on 𝑛 in line with Equation 1. Examining our data in light of this, we observe in Fig.  3b  that 𝑘 )"* for injected holes in P3HT is independent of light intensity for the range covered, the hallmark of monomolecular (i.e. trap-mediated) recombination kinetics. On the contrary, the dependence of 𝑘 )"* on 𝑛 in the case of PTAA and PTPD shows that the recombination kinetics are of higher order above 𝑛 ~ 10 17 cm -3 , a clear indicator of well-passivated traps. Therefore, this is evidence that the trap density at the MAPbI3/P3HT interface is significantly higher than with PTAA-or PTPD-capped MAPbI3. From our analysis, we extract values of 𝑘 )"*,-) for PTAA-, PTPD-and P3HT-capped MAPbI3 films at 𝑛 = 4 x 10 16 cm -3 as 2 x 10 3 , 2 x 10 3 , and 1 x 10 4 s -1 respectively. Therefore, recombination in the P3HT-capped system is an order of magnitude faster than in the PTAAor PTPD-capped system. These values are in good agreement with Stolterfoht et al, who noted an order of magnitude faster recombination current in P3HT-compared to PTAA-and PTPD-based films.  35  We have shown herein that this discrepancy can be attributed to the greater extent of interfacial trap passivation from PTAA and PTPD versus P3HT. Next, we looked to understand how the different extents of passivation from PTAA, PTPD and P3HT on the perovskite affected the yield of hole transfer. becomes dominated by bimolecular recombination, which is slower, typically on the order of 10-100ns. In this case, 𝑘 0 < 𝑘 / and so the hole injection yield increases. As we approach the low carrier-density limit of our TAS setup (𝑛 ≤ 10 16 cm -3 ), the recombination kinetics in the MAPbI3 layer begin to be dictated by trap-mediated monomolecular recombination. Here, the hole injection yield starts to plateau. This range of behaviour has been observed previously for MAPbI3/spiro-OMeTAD interfaces.  49  However, the more intriguing aspect of Fig.  3c  is the divergence between MAPbI3/P3HT and MAPbI3/(PTAA, PTPD) samples in the trap-limited regime. At high carrier-density when trap-states are filled, the ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& of the HTLs is similar, as predicted by the favourable interfacial energetics given in Fig.  1b . However, ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& is three times higher for PTAA and PTPD relative to P3HT at 𝑛 ~ 10 16 cm -3 when trap-states are not filled by photoexcited carriers and the effects of passivation become apparent. Additionally, the order of improvement goes P3HT < PTAA ~ PTPD, which agrees with the extent of passivation deduced from 𝛥𝐸 1 in Table  1 . We  MAPbI3. This has previously been attributed to the passivation of MAPbI3 grain boundaries by microscopic 2D domains.  50  Therefore, the highly passivated nature of the perovskite in this case should limit the extent to which the HTLs can interact with defects at the surface. We also note that the valence band minimum remains unchanged for BA0.09MA0.91PbI3.  50  Therefore, any changes in the hole injection yield are likely to be due to passivation alone. Fig.  4a-c  shows the relative hole injection yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& for perovskite/HTL samples (perovskite = MAPbI3, BA0.09MA0.91PbI3; HTL = PTAA, PTPD, P3HT) as a function of 𝑛. For PTAA-capped films, the hole injection yield is significantly higher for MAPbI3 than for BA0.09MA0.91PbI3. Furthermore, a similar trend is observed for MAPbI3/PTPD samples. This suggests that the lower defect density at the BA0.09MA0.91PbI3 surface limits the injection yield by blocking binding interactions. We again see very little dependence on trap-state density in the case of P3HT regardless of the perovskite layer used, adding further weight to the argument that passivation does not play a significant role in the hole injection process for this HTL. Additionally, little distinction can be made between the effectiveness of the three HTLs on BA0.09MA0.91PbI3, suggesting that it is the passivating interactions that allow PTAA and PTPD to outperform P3HT in MAPbI3-based systems.  We measured the current-voltage (J-V) characteristics of ITO/SnO2/MAPbI3/HTL/Au (HTL = PTAA, P3HT) devices in order to understand the effect of passivation under working conditions. For this study, experimental control was valued over device PCE and so we avoided the use of additives, which complicate the picture of passivation and interfacial charge extraction. Therefore, in order to ensure the best comparison between thiopheneand triarylamine-based HTLs, we decided to omit PTPD from the following discussion on account of its order of magnitude lower mobility relative to PTAA in its undoped form.  51  We suggest that while PTPD is highly capable of extracting holes from MAPbI3 -as evidenced by our TAS studies -the low hole mobility of this HTL could hinder the subsequent hole transport towards the gold contact. We therefore focus the following discussion on n-i-p devices that incorporate PTAA and P3HT, which are more prevalent in the literature.  33, 52  We attach a reference J-V curve in Fig S11  for  an ITO/SnO2/MAPbI3/PTAA/Au device, where PTAA contained additives bis-(trifluoromethane) sulfonimide lithium salt (Li-TFSI) and 4-tert-Butylpyridine (tBp) to achieve high hole mobility and conductivity.  53  We achieve a PCE of 19.2% with this device, which is well in line with other reports in the literature on pure MAPbI3-based n-i-p solar cells.  54  The J-V characteristics for the undoped PTAA-and P3HT-based devices at 1 sun are presented in Fig.  5a , with the relevant device parameters listed in The 𝑉 43 is defined as the quasi-Fermi energy splitting of electrons and holes under illumination and is consequently intertwined with (i) the trap-state density and (ii) the energetic alignment at the perovskite/HTL interface. We have shown throughout this work that non-radiative recombination at the MAPbI3/PTAA interface is significantly supressed relative to MAPbI3/P3HT, most likely due to enhanced passivation from PTAA. To isolate the impact of passivation, we measured the 𝑉 43 as a function of light intensity. In the case of pure bimolecular recombination, the slope of the semi-logarithmic plot in Fig.  5b  should be equal to the thermal voltage, 𝑘 1 𝑇/𝑒.  55  However, in the presence of trap-mediated recombination the slope deviates towards steeper values, with a value of 2𝑘 1 𝑇/𝑒 being the fingerprint of pure monomolecular recombination.  56  Intermediate situations with 𝑛 56 . 𝑘 1 𝑇/𝑒 (1 < 𝑛 56 < 2) can then be assessed by their ideality factor, 𝑛 56 .  57  The device incorporating P3HT as the HTL demonstrates an 𝑛 56 of 2.06, indicating that recombination occurring in the device is dominated by monomolecular trap-mediated recombination. On the other hand, a marked improvement was observed when PTAA was used, with 𝑛 56 reduced to 1.45. We therefore conclude that PTAA reduces trap-mediated recombination in the MAPbI3 layer to a greater extent than P3HT, contributing to the enhanced 𝑉 43 in PTAA-based devices. We note that poor energetic alignment will also contribute to the lower 𝑉 43 of P3HT-based devices.  The p-i-n architecture is the most widely used in contemporary high-performance PSCs on account of the increased resistance towards hysteresis and UV-light.  58, 59  Therefore, we also investigated the impact of passivation on interfacial charge injection in this class of materials. Firstly, we explored the impact on hole injection upon switching the HTL from top layer to bottom layer. To do this, we prepared p-i-n (HTL/MAPbI3/PCBM) and n-i-p (TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL) films and compared hole injection in the range, 10 16 < 𝑛 < 10 18 cm -3 . For PTAA, a stark contrast between p-i-n and n-i-p configurations is observed, with the hole injection yield being four times higher in the latter case at 𝑛 = 4 x 10 16 cm -3 . Conversely, hole injection across the MAPbI3/P3HT interface is similar irrespective of the architecture. 
 1. 4. Passivation-Mediated Hole Injection in n-i-p Devices We have shown throughout this work that TAS can give unique insight into the chemical interactions at MAPbI3/CTL interfaces. It is our view then, that the results in Fig.  6  can be rationalised in terms of the differing chemical interactions in the two architectures. Specifically, in the p-i-n architecture, a Poly [(9,9-bis(3'-(N,N-dimethylamino)propyl)-2,7fluorene)-alt-2,7-(9,9-dioctylfluorene)] (PFN) interlayer must be placed between the HTL substrate and MAPbI3 layer in order to improve the wetting of the latter.  60  This limits the extent of chemical interactions between the HTL and MAPbI3 layers. Moreover, while there are some reports of passivation from underlayers,  61  it is possible that the change in architecture limits the scope of such interactions. Therefore, we expect passivation at the MAPbI3/HTL interface in the p-i-n architecture to be obstructed. Conversely, in the n-i-p architecture, the HTL is deposited directly on top of the MAPbI3 layer, allowing it to interact with the active layer surface. We therefore postulate that the four-times lower hole injection yield upon switching from n-i-p to p-i-n architecture in the case of PTAA is due to the obstruction of passivation and the resulting decrease in interaction between the two layers. On the other hand, the similarity between p-i-n and n-i-p for P3HT-based films suggests that passivation-mediated hole injection is negligible in either case. This provides further evidence that passivation plays a critical role in the high hole injection yields exhibited by some HTLs e.g. PTAA. We next investigated whether electron injection at the top interface in p-i-n films is affected by passivation. To do this, we interfaced MAPbI3 with three fullerene-derivatives: [6,6]phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), indene-C60-propionic acid hexyl ester (IPH) and a fulleropyrrolidine with a triethylene glycol monoethyl ether side chain (PTEG). The structures given in Fig.  7a  show that the ETLs contain functional groups capable of Lewis base passivation. PCBM and IPH contain lone-pair oxygen in the form of C=O and C-O-C bonds, while PTEG has numerous possibilities including an oxygen-rich triethylene glycol chain and a tertiary amine group. Indeed, it has been shown that electron donating functionalities on such fullerene derivatives can bind to the perovskite at iodide vacancy (VI) sites.  63, 64  The extra passivating power of PTEG has been shown previously by Shao et al to be a factor in boosting the PCE of MAPbI3-xClx cells to higher values than could be achieved with PCBM.  57  Moreover, all three ETLs have a similarly favourable LUMO energy relative to the MAPbI3 conduction band (Fig.  7a ).  62  Here, we focus on how such passivation impacts electron injection with intensity-dependent TAS. Given this assignation, the raw change in optical density, 𝛥𝑂𝐷 obtained from TAS measurements for the different MAPbI3/ETL combinations can be used to estimate the electron injection yield, via the Beer-Lambert law: 
 2 Passivation-Mediated Electron Transfer in the p-i-n Architecture 𝑌𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 = 𝑛 7 𝑛 = ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& . 𝑁 . 1000. 𝜀 7 1 𝑛 (3) where 𝑛 7 , 𝑛, 𝜀 7 and 𝑁 . are the area density of fullerene anions in the ETL (cm -2 ), area density of photoexcited electrons in the MAPbI3 layer (cm -2 ), extinction coefficient of the fullerene anion (6000 M -1 cm -1 ) 65 and Avogadro's constant respectively. We obtain ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& as the value of ∆𝑂𝐷 at 1 µs in the raw transient absorption spectra and 𝑛 by assuming that every photon absorbed by the perovskite is converted to an electron/hole pair. The electron injection yield as measured by TAS is outlined in Fig.  7b . In the high-irradiance limit, the performance of the ETLs is similar, as one would predict from their identical LUMO levels. However, as the intensity of excitation is decreased, we start to see significant distinctions between the different ETLs. Interestingly, PTEG outperforms the other fullerenes at 2 x 10 16 cm -3 , while PCBM and IPH have almost identical responses as the intensity is lowered. In this experiment, we assumed that the contribution from the PTPD polaron at the ETL anion maximum was negligible. We note that any overlapping tail absorption from the PTPD polaron would only serve to over-estimate the IPH and PCBM electron yields relative to PTEG. Therefore, given that PTEG has a higher electron transfer yield than PCBM and IPH in spite of this, we are confident with our conclusion. 
 3. Discussion In this study, we investigated the intensity dependence of hole or electron injection from MAPbI3 to the HTL or ETL top contact as a function of carrier density, 𝑛 in the MAPbI3 layer. Importantly, significant divergence in the injection behaviour was found when moving from 𝑛 ~ 10 18 cm -3 (~500 Suns) to 𝑛 ~ 10 15 cm -3 (~ 1 Sun) -i.e., the domain of conventional solar cells. Specifically, those CTLs that were capable of passivating the top surface of the perovskite were able to produce greater charge transfer yields as the light intensity approached 1 Sun. In the following we outline the interfacial chemistry responsible for this effect, and discuss important implications for the design of perovskite optoelectronic devices. We found that the passivation from the triarylamines PTAA and PTPD (TAAs), was far superior compared to thiophene-based P3HT. To explain these findings, is interesting to qualitatively compare the Lewis basicity of the monomer units in the case of the TAAs and P3HT. Firstly, the hybridization of the passivating N atom in the TAAs is sp 3 , compared to the sp 2 hybridization of the passivating S in P3HT, making electron donation more facile in the former. Additionally, nitrogen has a slightly larger electronegativity (3.0, Pauling scale) compared to that of sulfur (= 2.6). This, combined with the much stronger inductive effect from the three aryl groups, suggests that the electron density at the passivating N group in TAAs is greater than S in P3HT, giving the TAAs greater capacity to coordinate to the perovskite surface via Lewis base passivation. The same rationale was used by Zhao et al who showed that increasing the electron density at the passivating O group in R-X=O amino acids -by tuning X from electronegative sulfur (=2.58) to less electronegative phosphorous (=2.19) -could enhance the extent of Lewis base passivation and increase PCE from 20.46% to 22.35%.  17  Elsewhere, Wu et al showed that increasing the electron density at the passivating carboxylate group in donor-𝜋-acceptor molecules, results in better binding to VI sites on the perovskite and an increase in efficiency from 18.52% to 20.43%.  66  We discard the idea that the greater electronegativity of N compared to S hinders electron donation, given that the electronegativity is still lower than that of oxygen, which is routinely used in Lewis bases for perovskite passivation, often in the form C=O bonds.  We subsequently found that such Lewis base passivation of VI sites is correlated with the yield of interfacial charge injection. This could be partly explained by the lower nonradiative recombination rate, 𝑘 )"*,-) in the TAAs compared to the P3HT, but this does not account for the drop off in hole injection yield for the TAAs when BA0.09MA0.91PbI3 -with it's lower trap density and thus lower 𝑘 )"*,-) -is used instead of MAPbI3 (Fig.  4 ). To explain this, we put forward the idea of passivation-mediated charge transfer, summarized in Fig.  8 . This can be understood in terms of the Marcus theory of electron transfer, by which increased overlap between donor and acceptor wavefunctions leads to enhanced rates of charge transfer. We propose that the strong passivating interactions between N atoms on the TAAs (Fig.  8 , left panel; blue) and VI (Fig.  8 , brown squares) at the perovskite surface leads to enhanced coupling between the perovskite VB and HTL HOMO, thus increasing the hole injection yield (Fig.  8 , top left). In the case of P3HT, the lack of VI passivation from S on P3HT (Fig.  8 , right panel, red) results in limited coupling between the perovskite VB and P3HT HOMO (Fig.  8 , top right), and thus lower hole injection yields. Moreover, consideration of the interaction geometry in Fig.  8  reveals a second factor that could determine the extent of wavefunction overlap and ultimately interfacial injection. In order for the TAAs to interact with the perovskite surface at VI sites, the monomer unit must interact with the perovskite surface in a 'face-on' configuration, ensuring close proximity between the perovskite surface and the conjugated backbone of the triarylamine. On the other hand, the optimum interaction geometry for P3HT would be 'edge-on', where the conjugated backbone of the polymer would lie out of plane with the perovskite surface. Therefore, the close proximity and in-plane nature of perovskite/TAA interface should work to enhance the cross section for interfacial charge injection.  67  Chemical intuition suggests that close proximity between donor and acceptor at the perovskite/HTL interface should be a double-edged sword. As we have shown here, passivating interactions lead to large injection yields due to increased overlap between the perovskite VB and HTL HOMO. By the same token, it has been suggested elsewhere that such overlap increases interfacial recombination and reduces device performance for some perovskite/HTL combinations.  32, 68  It is therefore curious that PTAA and PTPD offer the best of both worlds, in that they exhibit high injection yields and slow recombination lifetimes. We propose that this is because the strong passivating interactions in this case have the dual effect of increasing the overlap between the perovskite VB and the PTAA or PTPD HOMO, and mitigating charge trapping. In the case of P3HT, there is little evidence for passivation resulting in poorer extraction and a large amount of interfacial recombination. This supports the hypothesis of Heo et al, who suggested that the higher PCE of MAPbI3 devices based on triarylamine-rather than thiophene-based HTLs was due to the enhanced interfacial interaction in the former case.  69  Indeed, PSCs incorporating P3HT have recently surpassed 20% but not without extensive modification of the perovskite surface to enhance interfacial interactions.  33  This was achieved by functionalising the perovskite surface with nhexyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (HTAB), which simultaneously passivates the perovskite and improves the P3HT/perovskite contact via alkyl-alkyl Van  The resultant interactions with the MAPbI3 surface result in enhanced wavefunction overlap, and thus electron injection, in a similar way to that observed with the HTLs. We expect this interaction to be at the heart of the 11.69% to 15.71% improvement of PSC device performance upon switching PCBM for PTEG observed elsewhere.  57  All of this points to the critical nature of the perovskite/CTL interaction in determining efficiency of interfacial charge injection processes and ultimately of devices. Careful design of next-generation CTLs with passivating functionalities, or interfacial modifiers that enhance interactions with non-passivating CTLs, could improve interfacial charge injection, supress non-radiative recombination and enhance stability. Furthermore, work is currently underway to understand and control strain-induced recombination in the perovskite layer.  70, 71  However, the effect of strain exerted by CTLs on the perovskite remains unknown and should be the focus of future studies. Finally, the impact of this study is not limited to PV applications: passivating CTLs could also boost the efficiency of perovskite light-emitting diodes (PeLEDs) according to the same principles. We note also that Lewis base passivation of B 2+ (B = Pb, Sn) has been documented as an effective defect management strategy for PSCs based on "triplecation", 72 MA-free  73  and Pb-free perovskites.  74  We therefore expect our findings on passivation-mediated injection to apply to these systems too. 
 Conclusions In summary, we showed that passivation is an important part of the charge injection mechanism at the interfaces of PSCs. PL spectroscopy confirmed strong passivation in the case of PTAA-and PTPD-but not P3HT-capped films. By conducting PL studies on triallylamine and thiophene, we found the most likely mechanism was via Lewis base passivation from the tertiary amine groups on PTAA and PTPD with little effect from thiophene on P3HT. XPS further confirmed this as the binding energy of the N 1s orbital in PTPD and PTAA was significantly increased upon approach to the MAPbI3/HTL interface, but no such effect was found with S 2p in P3HT. Crucially, TAS measurements showed that the yield and lifetime of injected charges were much enhanced in those HTLs that underwent strong binding interactions. This partially explains why PTAA outperforms P3HT as a HTL in PSCs. We also showed that this is the case for ETLs in the p-i-n architecture where PTEG outperformed PCBM and IPH on account of its numerous passivating moieties. The results reported herein reveal a new aspect to the charge injection mechanisms in PSCs, which should be considered in the design of next-generation CTLs for perovskite optoelectronics. 
 Experimental Section 
 Materials All materials were purchased and used as received. PbI2 was purchased from Alpha Aesar. Mp-TiO2 and methylammonium iodide (MAI) were purchased from Dyesol. Butylammonium iodide (BAI), mp-Al2O3, anhydrous dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), anhydrous 𝛾-butyrolactone (GBL), anhydrous chlorobenzene, methanol (MeOH), P3HT, triallylamine (TAA), 3hexylthiophene (3HT) and thiophene (T) were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. PTAA, PTPD, PCBM and IPH were acquired from Ossila and PTEG from Solenne BV. PFN was bought from 1-material. 
 Film Fabrication Glass slides were washed in deionised water, acetone and isopropanol (IPA) for 15 minutes followed by O2 plasma treatment. Al2O3 substrates were prepared by making up a 6.67wt% solution of Al2O3 nanoparticles in IPA and spin-coating at 6000 rpm immediately after O2 plasma treatment. TiO2 substrates were prepared by making up a 2:7 (weight) solution of TiO2 paste in EtOH, spin-coating on the glass immediately after plasma treatment, drying at 90 o C for 10 minutes and annealing at 450 o C for 45 minutes. MAPbI3 was deposited according to the method of Jeon et al.  36  PbI2 and MAI were mixed together in a 1:1 ratio at a concentration of 1.2M in GBL and DMSO (3:7). After solvation, the solution was filtered with a 200 nm PTFE filter and spin-coated on top of the relevant substrate at 1000 rpm (10 s), 5000 rpm (30 s), 6000 rpm (20 s). Crucially, 800 µL of toluene antisolvent was drop-casted onto the spinning film after 25 s to aid crystallisation. The film was then annealed at 100 o C for 10 minutes. This antisolvent treatment resulted in a colour change from pale yellow to pale brown, while annealing resulted in a dark brown film. p-i-n films were made by depositing this layer on top of mesoporous TiO2 and coating with a 10 mg/mL HTL solution. The spin-coating rotation speed was varied to ensure all HTL layers were 30 ± 5 nm thick. n-i-p films were prepared by first depositing the HTL onto the glass at 0.25 wt% in chlorobenzene. Next, 0.05 wt% PFN in MeOH was spin-coated at 4000 rpm (45 s) to provide a thin interlayer that ensures decent wetting of the MAPbI3 layer. ETL solutions were prepared in chlorobenzene at 23 mg/mL and stirred at 40 o C for 1 hour and filtered with a 200 nm PTFE filter before use. These solutions were spin-coated on top of MAPbI3 film at 2000 rpm (30 s). 
 Fabrication of n-i-p perovskite solar cells n-i-p perovskite solar cells were fabricated on indium-doped tin oxide (ITO) coated glass substrates that were sequentially cleaned in acetone, detergent, deionised water (x2), acetone, and isopropanol (using ultrasonics) for 10 minutes. The substrates were then dried with nitrogen and treated by oxygen plasma for 10 minutes. Tin(IV) oxide (15 wt % in H2O colloidal dispersion, Alfa Aesar) was diluted with deionised water to 2.5 wt % and spin-coated onto ITO at 3000 rpm for 40 s. The films were immediately annealed at 150 °C for 30 minutes in ambient conditions forming a 25 nm SnO2 nanoparticle film. The SnO2 films were then cooled and further treated by oxygen plasma for 10 minutes to enable sufficient wetting for the next steps. The films were then transferred to a nitrogen filled glovebox for perovskite deposition. For the hole transport materials, a 10 mg/mL solution of PTAA (MW = 14,000) and P3HT (MW = 24,480) in toluene were prepared by stirring in a nitrogen filled glovebox for 1 h at 65 o C. In the case of our reference n-i-p cell, PTAA was doped following our previous report.  75  Briefly, additives of 8 μL bis(trifluoromethane)sulfonimide lithium salt (Li-TFSI)/acetonitrile (170 mg mL -1 , TCI) and 4 μL of 4-tert-butylpyridine (tBP, TCI) were added to the 10 mg/mL PTAA solution. The solution was then spin-coated onto the perovskite films at 3000 rpm for 20 s. Finally, 100 nm of Au was thermally evaporated (0.2 Å/s) at a base pressure of 5×10 -6 mbar. All current-voltage (J-V) characteristics were measured using a Keithley 2400 source meter. The cells were illuminated by an AM 1.5 filtered xenon lamp (Oriel Instruments) at 1 sun intensity, which was calibrated using a Si reference photodiode. All devices were stored in a dark nitrogen filled glovebox prior to measurement and were measured in a nitrogen-filled chamber. 
 X-Ray Photoluminescence (XPS) The XPS measurements were obtained in MultiLab 2000 with the X-ray source provided by monochromated Al K α X-ray photons (hv = 14.9 keV). The core level spectra were performed with pass energy of 20 eV and step size of 0.05 eV. 
 Steady-State Photoluminescence (ss-PL) Steady-state photoluminescence spectroscopy was performed with a Horiba Jobin-Yvan Fluorolog-3 spectrofluorometer at an excitation of 510nm and a slit width of 5nm. 
 Time-Resolved Photoluminescence (TRPL) Time resolved photoluminescence spectroscopy (TRPL) was undertaken with a Horiba Deltaflex modular fluorescence lifetime system that uses a PPD 900 detector. Excitation of the sample was achieved with a 635nm LED (Horiba N-635L) at a rate of 1MHz and intensity of 18pJ/pulse. The half-life of the excitation pulse was 100ps. 
 Microsecond Transient Absorption Spectroscopy (TAS) Samples for microsecond transient absorption spectroscopy measurements were taken in a sealed quarts cuvette from the nitrogen-filled glovebox where they had been prepared and excited with a dye laser (Photon Technology International Inc. GL-301) with fluence 10µJcm-2. The dye laser was itself pumped by a N2 laser (Photon Technology International Inc. GL-3300). The transient changes in the absorption of the sample were captured with a 100W tungsten lamp (Bentham IL 1) on an orthogonal optical axis to the excitation beam. The probe wavelength was adjusted by a monochromator and set to the maximum of the transient spectrum of the HTL hole polaron. This probing beam was detected by a silicon photodiode (Hamatsu Photonics, S1722-01) before being filtered and amplified (Costronics Electronics) and finally interpreted by a digital oscilloscope (Tektronics DPO3012). The number of photoexcited carriers, 𝑛 was approximated as follows: 𝑛 = 𝐸𝜆 ℎ𝑐𝑑 (1 -𝑅 !8%! -𝑇 !8%! ) Where 𝐸 is the energy density of the pump pulse, 𝜆 is the pump wavelength, 𝑑 is the perovskite film thickness (= 350 nm) and 𝑅 !8%! and 𝑇 !8%! are the reflectance and transmittance at the pump wavelength measured via UV-Vis absorption spectroscopy. Here, we assumed that each absorbed photon created one electron/hole pair. 
 Associated Content Supporting Information  2. 1 1 Passivation-Mediated Charge Transfer in the n-i-p Architecture 2. 1. 1. Design of n-i-p Films 
 Fig. 1 : 1 Fig. 1: (a) Chemical structures of PTAA, PTPD and P3HT hole transport layers. (b) Corresponding energetics at the MAPbI3/HTL interface. Values in eV shown for MAPbI3, PTAA, PTPD and P3HT are a three-paper average from photoelectron spectroscopy measurements in the literature, details in TableS1.We interfaced MAPbI3 with three well-known polymeric hole transport layers (HTLs): 
 Fig. 2 : 2 Fig. 2: Evidence for passivation. (a) normalised steady-state photoluminescence spectra for MAPbI3 and MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = PTAA, PTPD, P3HT) films. Insets: (top left) A close-up view of the peak maxima; (bottom) schematic illustrating the blue-shift of the photoluminescence peak after passivation. Films were excited at 510 nm. The passivating moieties on the HTLs were simulated by their "pseudomonomers": thiophene for P3HT and triallylamine for both PTAA and PTPD, structures in (b). (c) Radiative lifetime of MAPbI3, MAPbI3/thiophene and MAPbI3/triallylamine excited at 635 nm (fluence: 0.11 nJ cm -2 ); (inset) steady-state emission of the same samples excited at 510 nm. N 1s core level spectra for (d) MAPbI3/PTAA and (e) MAPbI3/PTPD films. (f) S 2p core level spectra for MAPbI3/P3HT films. In each panel (d-f), the upper and lower spectra correspond to thick (30 nm) and thin (< 10 nm) HTL films. Structures of the HTLs (target element highlighted) are given in the insets. 
 Fig. 3 : 22 Fig 322 Fig. 3: Characterisation of hole injection in TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = P3HT, PTAA, PTPD) films: (a) Normalised TA decays for the MAPbI3/HTL films at 𝑛 ~ 2x10 16 cm -3 . (b) Recombination rate constant, 𝑘 #$% (taken as 1/𝜏 #$% ) over the same carrier-density range. (c) Relative hole injection yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 &'( normalised to photons absorbed, versus the initial carrier density, 𝑛 in the MAPbI3 layer. Inset: competing kinetic processes at the MAPbI3/HTL interface. Samples were excited via the glass substrate at 510 nm and probed at the maximum of the HTL polaron absorption: 950 nm for P3HT and 1600 nm for PTAA/PTPD.We next looked at how passivating interactions from HTLs at the MAPbI3/HTL interface 
 Given the Beer-Lambert law, ∆OD is directly related to the concentration of injected holes in the HTL. Therefore, by tracking the initial intensity, ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& and subsequent decay of the polaron spectra, we can build up a picture of the hole injection yield and recombination kinetics respectively. In Fig S9 we show such decays for the example of a MAPbI3/PTPD film over a range of excitation fluences. Each TAS decay can be modelled with a stretched exponential function: ∆𝑂𝐷 ∝ 𝑒𝑥𝑝 --/ 
 Fig. 3c shows the relative hole yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& , normalised for photons absorbed, as a function of 𝑛 for the same TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL (HTL = PTAA, PTPD, P3HT) samples. The ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& shown is a three-sample average and the error bars indicate the standard deviation between the three repeats. The general shape of the individual curves presented therein can be explained in terms of the competing rates of recombination in the MAPbI3 layer (𝑘 0 ) and injection into the HTL (𝑘 / ) (Fig. 3c, inset). 40 At high carrier density (𝑛 ≥ 10 18 cm -3 ), recombination in MAPbI3 is governed by fast, three-body Auger recombination where 𝑘 0 > 𝑘 / , resulting in low hole injection yields. As the carrier density is lowered (10 16 -10 18 cm -3 ), recombination in MAPbI3 
 also measured ∆𝑂𝐷 %#& versus 𝑛 for Al2O3/MAPbI3/HTL films to rule out the contribution from TiO2 -at 1600 nm as the reason for the enhanced hole injection yields in PTAA-and PTPD-capped films (Fig S10). In this system, the insulating character of Al2O3 means that hole injection to the HTL is the only energetically favourable means of interfacial charge injection. Therefore, given the striking resemblance between Fig S10 and Fig. 3cwith PTPD and PTAA exhibiting much greater hole injection yields than P3HT as the carrier density is lowered -we can confidently discard the impact of the TiO2 -contribution. 
 Fig. 4 : 4 Fig. 4: Effect of perovskite trap density on hole injection. Relative hole injection yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 &'( , normalised per photon absorbed, as a function of the initial carrier density, 𝑛 in the MAPbI3 layer for TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL (coloured symbols) and TiO2/BA0.09MA0.91PbI3/HTL (white symbols), where HTL = (a) PTAA, (b) PTPD and (c) P3HT. Inset of (a): steady-state PL spectra of MAPbI3 (black) and BA0.09MA0.91PbI3 (magenta). Samples were excited via the glass substrate at 510 nm and probed at the maximum of the HTL polaron absorption: 950 nm for P3HT and 1600 nm for PTAA/PTPD. 
 Fig. 5 : 5 Fig. 5: Characterisation of ITO/SnO2/MAPbI3/HTL/Au (HTL = PTAA, P3HT) devices: (a) Current-voltage (J-V) characteristics; (b) intensity dependence of the open-circuit voltage (VOC) and the relevant ideality factors. 
 35 35 
 2. 2 . 2 . 2 . 1 .Fig. 6 : 22216 Fig. 6: Effect of architecture on hole injection. (a,b) Relative hole injection yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 &'( , normalised per photon absorbed, as a function of the initial carrier density, 𝑛, in the MAPbI3 layer for n-i-p (TiO2/MAPbI3/HTL) and p-i-n (HTL/MAPbI3/PCBM) films (HTL = PTAA and P3HT). Samples were excited at 510 nm via the glass substrate and probed at the maximum of the HTL polaron absorption: 950 nm for P3HT and 1600 nm for PTAA. 
 Fig. 6a and Fig. 6a and b show the relative hole injection yield, ∆𝑂𝐷 &'( , normalised per photon 
 Fig. 7 : 7 Fig. 7: a) Schematic illustrating the interfacial energetics at the MAPbI3/ETL interface (ETL = PCBM, IPH and PTEG), 62 as well as the ETL structures. (b) Electron injection yield as calculated from transient absorption spectroscopy. Samples were excited via the glass substrate at 510 nm and probed at 925 nm, 1000 nm and 1000 nm for PTEG-, IPH-and PCBM-capped films. 
 Fig S12 gives the transient spectra of MAPbI3/ETL (ETL = PCBM, IPH, PTEG) on hole conducting PTPD (circles) and insulating Al2O3 (triangles) taken 1 µs after excitation at 510nm. In the PTPD/MAPbI3/ETL samples we expected features from both PTPD and the ETL, whereas in the Al2O3/MAPbI3/ETL samples we expected features purely from the ETL due to the insulating nature of Al2O3. Indeed, the samples deposited on PTPD show the characteristic absorption associated with hole polarons on the PTPD (peak at 1600nm) and another contribution centred around 1000 nm for PTPD/MAPbI3/(PCBM, IPH) and 925 nm for PTPD/MAPbI3/PTEG. Given that (i) the 900-1000 nm peaks do not feature in the MAPbI3/PTPD spectrum (black squares), (ii) the 900-1000 nm peaks are clearly resolved in Al2O3/MAPbI3/ETL films (triangles), and that (iii) the MAPbI3 transient absorption is zero at 1µs (Fig S7); we assign the 900-1000 nm peaks to the ETL anion, formed after electron injection from MAPbI3. This is in line with the transient spectrum of PCBM measured by Ohkita and Ito. 65   
 Fig. 8 : 8 Fig. 8: Illustration of Passivation-Mediated Charge Transfer at the Perovskite/CTL Interface for PTAA and P3HT. Iodide vacancies (VI) are indicated by the empty brown squares. Left panel: strong passivating interactions and a 'face-on' geometry lead to good overlap between the wavefunctions of the perovskite valence band, 𝜓 ,-and the HTL HOMO, 𝜓 ./0/ . Right panel: weaker passivating interactions and an 'edge-on' interaction geometry lead to poor overlap between 𝜓 ,-and 𝜓 ./0/ . 
 der Waal interactions, enhancing hole injection. Consideration of the ETL structures results in an analogous conclusion around CTL passivation. It is established that PTEG has a greater capacity to passivate VI vacancies compared to IPH and PCBM. 57 This has can be explained in terms of the passivating moieties on the individual ETLs. While the structures of IPH and PCBM are different, they contain the same amount of C=O and C-O-C groups capable of binding to VI at the MAPbI3 surface. On the other hand, PTEG has a much stronger propensity to passivate on account of its extra electron-donating functionalities in the form of ethylene glycol and tertiary amine groups. 
 Table 1 : 1 Parameters from XPS spectra. Recorded binding energies (𝐸 ! ) are for N 1s (PTAA and PTPD) and S 2p3/2 (P3HT). ∆𝐸 ! is the difference between 𝐸 ! measured for the 30 nm and <10 nm films. 
 Sample HTL thickness (nm) 𝑬 𝒃 (eV) ∆𝑬 𝒃 (eV) MAPbI3/PTAA 30 398.90 ± 0.05 0.2 ± 0.1 < 10 399.10 ± 0.05 MAPbI3/PTPD 30 399.05 ± 0.05 0.2 ± 0.1 < 10 399.25 ± 0.05 MAPbI3/P3HT 30 163.20 ± 0.05 0.0 ± 0.1 < 10 163.20 ± 0.05 
 Table 2 . 2 J-V parameters for the ITO/SnO2/MAPbI3/HTL/Au (HTL = P3HT, PTAA) devices displayed above. HTL 𝑱 𝑺𝑪 (mAcm -2 ) 𝑽 𝑶𝑪 (V) 𝑭𝑭 PCE (%) P3HT 17.10 0.902 0.612 9.45 PTAA 22.35 1.065 0.674 16.19 
 Table 2 . 2 The cells incorporating PTAA were observed to perform markedly better than those using P3HT, with efficiencies of 16.19% and 9.45% respectively. This difference was driven by improvements in both the short-circuit current (𝐽 23 ; 17.10 to 22.35 mAcm -2 ) and open-circuit voltage (𝑉 43 ; 0.902 V to 1.065 V). As evidenced by our TAS results in Fig. 3c, hole injection is much enhanced at MAPbI3/PTAA interfaces relative to those involving P3HT. Therefore, we expect this, as well as the greater mobility of PTAA 51 to be factors in the improved 𝐽 23 in PTAA- based devices. 
 15, 17, 66   
 Extraction of interfacial energetics from the literature; DEKTAK measurements for HTL thickness; HTL spin-coating parameters; Raw steady-state photoluminescence spectra for MAPbI3/HTL films; Normalised photoluminescence spectra for MAPbI3/HTL films with front and back excitation; Comparison of PL decay dynamics of MAPbI3 and MAPbI3:3HT; C 1s XPS spectra for MAPbI3/HTL films; Transient absorption spectra of MAPbI3/HTL films; Transient absorption spectrum of a MAPbI3 film; Visible absorption of a MAPbI3 film; TAS traces as a function of excitation fluence for MAPbI3/PTPD; ∆𝑂𝐷 &'( as a function of 𝑛 for Al2O3/MAPbI3/HTL films; J-V characteristics of an ITO/SnO2/PTAA/Au device; Transient absorption spectra of MAPbI3/ETL films.
