Paper #: 852_1
Title: Charge Dynamics and Defect States under "Spot-Light": Spectroscopic Insights into Halide Perovskite Solar Cells
Halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have shown remarkable power conversion efficiencies. However, the inherent defect issues of perovskite materials still limit their performance and long-term stability, resulting in lifespans far from commercial standards. With their noninvasive approach to probing the electronic and vibrational properties of materials, spectroscopic techniques have become crucial tools for uncovering and understanding defect states and complex charge carrier dynamics in halide perovskites. This review explores the application of various advanced spectroscopic techniques in PSCs to elucidate the complex behaviors of charge carriers within PSCs. These techniques reveal detailed temporal and spatial distributions of charge carriers, enabling precise analysis of defect impacts and interfacial charge transfer processes. By integrating spectroscopic data, it is possible to more accurately identify and mitigate defect-induced nonradiative recombination and charge transfer, thereby enhancing the stability and efficiency of PSCs. This comprehensive spectroscopic understanding is crucial for developing innovative technologies to accelerate the commercial viability of PSCs.
Introduction Over the past decade, halide perovskite materials have attracted extensive research in optoelectronics, particularly in solar cell technology.  [1] [2] [3]  Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) possess excellent properties such as tunable bandgap, high absorption coefficient (≦10 5 cm À1 ),  [4]  low exciton binding energy (<30 meV),  [5]  balanced and long-range bipolar charge transport characteristics, and high carrier mobility.  [6]  Since the first reported power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 3.8% in 2009,  [7]  PSCs have achieved significant technological leaps, with single-junction devices reaching a PCE of >26% by 2024.  [8, 9]  This groundbreaking progress has made halide perovskite materials a leading contender in photovoltaic technology, posing a formidable challenge to existing technologies. Three-dimensional (3D) perovskite, as a soft semiconductor material, has a crystal structure determined by its composition, represented by the general formula AMX 3 , where A denotes a monovalent organic or inorganic cation (Cs þ , Rb þ , MA þ , FA þ , etc.). B represents a divalent metal cation (Pb 2þ , Sn 2þ , Ge 2þ ) and X is a halide anion (I À , B À , and Cl À ). These metal cations and anions form an octahedral structure to construct the perovskite framework, while the A-site cations fit into the octahedral voids, providing stability to the crystal structure.  [10] [11] [12]  The solution processing of perovskite films is simple, the film formation steps are convenient, and they possess good flexibility, paving the way for large-scale development, and commercializing PSC modules in the foreseeable future.  [13]  Although PSCs have demonstrated excellent PCE, their long-term stability still lags behind existing photovoltaic technologies and has not yet met the standards required for commercialization.  [14] [15] [16]  This issue mainly stems from the polycrystalline and ionic nature of perovskite materials, leading to lattice defects and trap states. These defects result in nonradiative recombination, charge capture-de-trapping, and ion migration in perovskite films.  [17, 18]  The formation of ionic defects is closely related to the creation of low-energy states, which promote the formation of ion vacancies, further leading to ion migration within the perovskite layers. This ion migration phenomenon produces a shielding effect on the effective electric field within the perovskite layers, thereby reducing the extraction efficiency of charge carriers and resulting in performance hysteresis and degradation of the device.  [19] [20] [21]  Spectroscopy methods play a pivotal role in characterizing perovskite materials and PSCs, offering deep insights into their electronic and structural properties. Common to these methods is their ability to probe the interactions of light with materials, albeit through different mechanisms. For instance, photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy assesses light emission from perovskites after excitation, revealing information about electron-hole recombination dynamics critical for understanding and optimizing light absorption and emission processes in solar cells. Transient absorption (TA) spectroscopy provides a temporal profile of how excited states in perovskites evolve, helping to map out charge carrier dynamics and lifetimes, which directly influence the efficiency and stability of solar cells. Time-resolved microwave conductivity (TRMC) allows for quantifying charge carrier mobility and lifetimes by measuring the conductivity response to pulsed light, which is critical for evaluating material quality and the effectiveness of interfaces within solar cells. Finally, optical pump-terahertz probe (OPTP) spectroscopy measures the ultrafast conductivity changes under terahertz radiation postlight excitation, providing essential insights into carrier transport mechanisms. Each of these spectroscopic techniques, by dissecting different aspects of charge carrier behavior and material interaction with light, aids significantly in the development and refinement of perovskite-based technologies, ensuring improved performance and viability of solar energy solutions. Figure  1  schematically shows the classification of spectroscopic techniques at different wavelengths applied in PSCs. Meanwhile, the dynamic properties of charge carriers play a decisive role in the efficiency and stability of the devices. Trap levels introduced by defects act as Shockley-Read-Hall nonradiative recombination centers within the semiconductor bandgap, negatively impacting the dynamics of charge carriers.  [22]  Additionally, the presence of divalent metal cations in the perovskite structure determines the local geometric configuration of the lattice, with each cation having a pair of lone-pair electrons.  [11]  At room temperature, lattice distortions and continuous motion may lead to instability in the halide perovskite structure. Therefore, using appropriate characterization tools to study the quality and defect states of perovskite materials and understanding the impact of these defects on carrier dynamics and the interfacial charge is crucial for enhancing carrier lifetime, suppressing carrier recombination, and optimizing the overall performance and stability of devices.  [23, 24]  This review briefly documents the application of spectroscopic characterization techniques in studying halide perovskite defects and their contributions to understanding carrier dynamics and interfacial charge transfer. The article first introduces the principles of various spectroscopic methods, including PL, TA, TRMC, and OPTP spectroscopy. Next, the review provides a comprehensive overview of how these techniques are applied to characterize the performance of PSCs, focusing on how these techniques are used to evaluate the quality and defect states of perovskite materials, as well as to assess the interfacial charge transfer between the charge transport layer (CTL) and the perovskite layer and its impact on PCE. By integrating data from different spectroscopic techniques, it is possible to more accurately investigate the defect characteristics in perovskite materials and develop new technologies that help enhance the stability of PSCs, thereby accelerating their commercialization prospects. 
 Mechanisms of Various Spectroscopic Techniques In the technological development of photovoltaic material systems, a deep understanding of the fundamental physical processes, particularly the main processes leading to efficiency losses, is essential for achieving technological maturity.  [25]  Therefore, the tools used to study these processes and losses must be built on a solid theoretical foundation, which ensures the correct interpretation and quantification of experimental data. One such tool is PL spectroscopy, the process by which matter absorbs photons (or electromagnetic waves) and re-radiates them (Figure  2a ). From the perspective of quantum mechanics, this process can be described as a substance absorbing photons and transitioning to a higher energy excited state, then returning to a lower energy state while emitting photons.  [26]  In a typical direct bandgap PL experiment, incident laser photons with energy higher than the material's bandgap energy excite the semiconductor. This excitation generates electrons at the conduction band (CB) edge and holes at the valence band edge. However, these excited states are transient; electrons relax toward the CB minimum (the intrinsic state) shortly after excitation through energy and momentum relaxation processes. The pulsed laser diode is exciting the sample, whose luminescence is directed toward a detector (e.g., a photomultiplier tube connected with photon counting electronics. Reproduced with permission.  [50]  Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. c) The energy band diagram showing the carrier excitation in TA, which results in the different bands in TA spectra (ground state bleaching (GSB), excited emission (SE), and photoinduced absorption (PIA)). d) Schematic illustration of ultrafast TA instrument. Reproduced with permission.  [99]  Copyright 2020, Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute. e,g) Schematic diagrams of TRMC and OPTP measurements. Reproduced with permission.  [33]  Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH GmbH. f ) Schematic representation of the TRMC setup. Reproduced with permission.  [34]  Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH Verlag. h) Schematic representation of an OPTP experimental setup. Reproduced with permission.  [94]  Copyright 2011, American Physical Society. Subsequently, they recombine with holes, emitting photons. In contrast, for indirect bandgap semiconductors, excited electrons and holes do not share the same momentum space. As electrons transition to the ground state during relaxation, momentum mismatch necessitates interactions with lattice phonons for further transitions. This process leads to energy dissipation as heat, while the remaining energy is emitted as light through subsequent recombination events.  [27]  The emitted light's wavelength differs from the absorbed radiation's wavelength, forming a PL spectrum with the intensity or energy distribution of light at different wavelengths. Essentially, PL is a process involving the excitation and de-excitation of photons. Depending on the type of light source used, PL can be divided into continuous-wave photoluminescence (cw-PL) and pulsed time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL). cw-PL uses a continuous-wave laser for excitation. The laser illuminates the sample with constant intensity, measuring the emission spectrum under continuous excitation to analyze optical band gaps, defect states, etc., making it suitable for studying steady-state optical properties. In contrast, TRPL uses a pulsed laser for excitation, adding a time-resolved dimension to PL by using high-speed detectors (such as time-correlated single photon counters (TCSPC) or photomultiplier tubes) to measure the variation in emission intensity over time (Figure  2b ). By recording the emission intensity at different time points, it studies carrier dynamics, recombination, and energy transfer processes, making it suitable for studying transient optical properties. TA spectroscopy is a pump-probe technique used to visualize ultrafast carrier dynamics in semiconductors and study defects and traps (Figure  2d ).  [28] [29] [30]  In this technique, ultrashort pulse lasers are used to excite the sample, causing electrons to transition from the ground state to the excited state, thereby creating a nonequilibrium state. Electrons in this nonequilibrium state can participate in various dynamic processes, such as energy transfer, electron-hole pair generation, and recombination. Additionally, because the sample is in a nonequilibrium state, the interaction of the probe pulse with the sample can induce nonlinear effects, such as two-photon or three-photon absorption and nonlinear refraction. These effects lead to changes in the sample's absorption of the probe light. Using time-delayed probe pulses can measure changes in the reflectance, absorption rate (ΔA/A), and transmittance of the excited sample. Typically, TA spectra simultaneously display positive and negative signals.  [31]  The negative region of the (ΔA/A) wavelength plot represents the SE of excited state electrons and the GSB for the jump from the ground state to the excited state, while positive (ΔA/A) values correspond to PIA.  [32]  The mechanisms for the appearance of these bands are shown in Figure  2c . TRMC and OPTP spectroscopy are techniques used to investigate the dynamics of photo-generated carriers in materials. The common feature of these two techniques is that they observe the formation and dynamic behavior of photoexcited electrons, holes, and excitons by measuring the transient changes in photoconductivity and carrier mobility. As illustrated in Figure  2e ,g, OPTP and TRMC are based on the same working principle. A light pump pulse acts on the perovskite sample, inducing the generation of carriers. These carriers, according to their migration characteristics, accelerate under the electric field of the terahertz probe pulse or in a fixed microwave field, oscillating at terahertz or microwave frequencies, respectively. As a result, the photoexcited carriers acquire oscillatory drift velocities, causing partial absorption of terahertz or microwave radiation energy. This absorption is reflected in the pump-induced changes in the terahertz electric field ΔE/E or the reflected microwave power ΔP/P, allowing the measurement and analysis of the photoconductivity changes Δσs or ΔG of the material thin film.  [33]  A schematic diagram of the associated equipment is shown in Figure  2f ,h. Through these measurements, a deeper understanding of the material's response to photoexcitation and the mobility of carriers can be obtained. As noncontact techniques, TRMC and OPTP do not require prolonged exposure to electric fields that could cause ion migration. Therefore, both technologies have certain advantages in terms of reliability, sensitivity, and reproducibility.  [34]  Spectroscopic techniques, with their noninvasive ability to probe the electronic and vibrational properties of materials, have become essential means for revealing and understanding the complex carrier dynamics in halide perovskite.  [35, 36]  These techniques provide us with deep insights into the electronic structure of carriers, the defect states in materials, and their evolution over time. Next, we will further explore the applications of different spectroscopic techniques in analyzing carrier dynamics. 
 Application of Cw-PL in the Analysis of Carrier Dynamics Cw-PL is often referred to as steady-state photoluminescence. It is one of the key experimental techniques for revealing internal recombination processes in materials and quantifying bulk and interface losses, and it is suitable for many semiconductor materials.  [37]  3.1. Cw-PL to Evaluate the Quality and Defect State of Bulk Perovskite Using cw-PL spectroscopy to characterize perovskites is an ideal choice in semiconductor materials. This is because perovskite materials, as direct bandgap semiconductors, can efficiently absorb most of the incident solar spectrum and have a high photoluminescence quantum yield, which means they can more effectively generate electron-hole pairs under light excitation, thereby providing a stronger PL signal. In the field of PSCs, the recombination of charge carriers, especially nonradiative recombination, is regarded as an energy loss process because it leads to the loss of photo-generated charge carriers within the perovskite. However, cw-PL spectroscopy provides an effective means of comparing the radiative recombination of photo-generated charge carriers within the perovskite layer with trap-assisted nonradiative recombination losses.  [38, 39]  This technique can quantify the emission rates of photo-excited charge carriers, and its application range is not limited to thin films but applies to complete PSC devices.  [40]  Through this method, it is possible to deeply analyze the charge carrier dynamics in films and devices, identify key limiting factors affecting performance, and thus evaluate the performance of materials and devices. The cw-PL spectrum shows a peak within the studied wavelength range (533 to 910 nm), corresponding to the interband radiative recombination process in the perovskite layer. The position of this peak is mainly influenced by the chemical composition of the perovskite layer and shows a qualitative correlation with its absorption threshold (Figure  3a ).  [41]  Meanwhile, previous studies have pointed out that the broadening of the PL emission line of perovskite thin films is controlled by coupling charge carriers with phonons and the distribution of trap states.  [42, 43]  The full width at half maximum (FWHM) is an important parameter describing the shape of the PL peak spectrum. When the PL emission peak symmetrically broadens, and the FWHM extends in both high-energy and low-energy directions, this is usually attributed to the disorder in the film and the scattering effects caused by defects. In other words, effective defect passivation can narrow the PL peak by reducing the density of trap states. Simultaneously, blue or red shifts in the peak value of the cw-PL spectrum can reveal changes in radiative recombination caused by trap states in lead halide perovskites. Such shifts in wavelength reflect changes in the internal electronic structure of the material, providing essential clues for understanding the optoelectronic properties of the material.  [44, 45]  Generally, a blue shift of the PL emission peak to lower wavelengths is due to reduced defects, whereas a redshift to higher wavelengths indicates an increase in trap state density. Shi et al.  [46]  employed (3-aminopropyl)trimethoxysilane (APTMS) as an interfacial passivation agent at the interface of the organic-inorganic hybrid perovskite (OIHP) and the electron transport layer (ETL) to reduce defect states caused by surface dangling bonds in mixed cation OIHP systems. By comparing the PL intensity of semistacked and fully stacked devices, the study confirmed that APTMS passivation effectively reduced interfacial defects. Experimental results showed that devices with passivation treatment exhibited significantly enhanced PL emission intensity, with an enhancement of two orders of magnitude compared to the control group (Figure  3b ). After contacting the C60 ETL, the PL intensity of both the passivation and control layers decreased due to rapid interfacial recombination with the fullerene material. However, it is noteworthy that introducing APTMS as a passivation agent significantly mitigated the PL intensity attenuation induced by fullerene (Figure  3c ). The presence of APTMS positively impacted the interfacial recombination process, reducing nonradiative recombination losses caused by the fullerene material, thereby helping maintain a Figure  3 . a) Cw-PL spectra of perovskite layers with different compositions. Reproduced with permission.  [41]  Copyright 2020, Elsevier Ltd. b,c) PL emission spectra of half-stacked and fully stacked devices with and without APTMS. Reproduced with permission.  [46]  Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. d) Cw-PL spectra of blade-coated perovskite films without DMPU and with 0.4 mmol DMPU additive. Reproduced with permission.  [47]  Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. e,f ) In situ PL (left) and corresponding PL intensity (right) of films with or without 3API during spin coating and annealing. Reproduced with permission.  [48]  Copyright 2023, Springer Nature. higher PL intensity. Figure  3d  compares the cw-PL spectra of Cs 0.15 FA 0.85 PbI 2.55 Br 0.45 films with and without N, N'-dimethyl propylene urea (DMPU).  [47]  Films treated with DMPU exhibited stronger fluorescence intensity than rare-earth samples, indicating a reduction in nonradiative recombination processes due to decreased defect states in the material. Additionally, a slight shift of the PL emission peak toward shorter wavelengths was observed, suggesting that DMPU doping helps reduce the density of trap states. Furthermore, Yang et al.  [48]  used in situ PL technology to study the reduction of stacking faults in FAPbI 3 OIHP films by 3-aminopyridine (3API). The in situ PL spectra shown in Figure  3e  recorded the changes throughout the process from film spin-coating to thermal annealing, finding that the PL intensity of the control film gradually decreased during thermal annealing, indicating the formation of stacking faults. The introduction of 3API not only slowed down the crystallization rate of OIHP but also effectively suppressed the formation of stacking faults. This was verified by the gradual increase in PL intensity during further thermal annealing (Figure  3f  ), which positively contributed to the improvement of the PCE of PSCs, increasing from 22.8% to 25.3%, and also enhanced the stability of the devices. 
 Cw-PL to Evaluate the Interface Charge Transfer In cw-PL spectrum analysis, the intensity, shape, and wavelength position of the peak provide critical information. Generally, a higher PL yield suggests reduced nonradiative recombination losses, which is beneficial for improving the open-circuit voltage (V OC ).  [49]  By comparing the PL emission rates of devices and perovskite films, it is also possible to identify energy losses that may occur after contact with the CTL.  [50, 51]  In previous studies, the widely accepted view is that in perovskite films, lower defect density leads to an increase in PL intensity, indicating a reduction in nonradiative recombination and effective defect passivation.  [52]  However, the situation is different when testing perovskite layers with CTLs. In this case, if the PL intensity quenches before the photo-generated charge carriers undergo radiative recombination, the charge carriers have been effectively transported before reaching the interface, reducing recombination at the interface. At the same time, the greater the quenching degree, the better the defect passivation effect and the higher the charge transport efficiency.  [53] [54] [55]  This result also reveals an improvement in the charge mobility within the device, which helps to enhance the photocurrent and fill factor in PSCs.  [56, 57]  Recently, Campanari et al. pointed out that the cw-PL quenching phenomenon measured under short-circuit conditions can serve as an effective indicator for evaluating solar cell performance.  [58]  Furthermore, the research team explained the variation in the PL quenching ratio under open-circuit and short-circuit conditions and its correlation with cell efficiency through a concise model. The study by Mamun et al.  [59]  pointed out that the reduction in PL emission intensity at the grain boundaries is because these boundaries act as centers for nonradiative recombination. In contrast, the opposite phenomenon is observed inside the grains of MAPbI 3-x Cl x perovskite films (Figure  4a-c   Reproduced with permission.  [59]  Copyright 2017, Royal Society of Chemistry. d,e) PL imaging of devices with Li-TFSI and Fe(F20TPP)Cl doped in Spiro-OMeTAD, respectively. f ) Cw-PL spectra of glass/perovskite films with or without Li-TFSI and 1.5% Fe(F20TPP)Cl-doped Spiro-OMeTAD coverage. Reproduced with permission.  [60]  Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. perovskite film without any CTL exhibited the strongest PL signal at 790 nm, thanks to its high-quality film properties. However, a significant quenching of the PL intensity was observed when the film was covered by a hole transport layer (HTL). Notably, compared to the commonly used Li-TFSI dopant, the newly developed Spiro-OMeTAD containing 1.5% Fe(F20TPP)Cl showed a more significant PL quenching effect, which coincides with the increasing trend in material conductivity and hole mobility, indicating efficient charge extraction between the perovskite layer and Fe(F20TPP)Cl-doped Spiro-OMeTAD layer. Moreover, hyperspectral PL imaging demonstrated the microscopic PL distribution observed at the characteristic PL peak of the perovskite (Figure  4d, e ). Compared to the Spiro-OMeTAD doped with 1.5% Fe(F20TPP)Cl, the perovskite film covered with Li-TFSI-doped Spiro-OMeTAD HTL showed stronger PL intensity, indicating relatively lower hole extraction efficiency, consistent with cw-PL measurements.  [60]  4. Application of TRPL in the Analysis of Carrier Dynamics TRPL, also known as transient PL, is an essential technique for measuring the nonradiative recombination of carriers related to defect concentration. The measurements obtained by this technique are usually highly consistent with steady-state PL results, providing mutually supportive evidence for the conclusions drawn from each technique. After photoexcitation, the initial fast decay phase is mainly caused by carrier trapping, during which high-density trap states quickly capture a large amount of photo-generated charges. These trapped charges recombine through nonradiative pathways or return to their original energy bands.  [61]   
 TRPL to Evaluate the Quality and Defect State of Bulk Perovskite One common technique for recording transient PL signals is TCSPC. This technique allows for quantitative analysis of PL decay and fitting of decay curves using models such as single exponential and multiexponential decay (Table  1 ) to extract time constants of carrier lifetimes. TRPL data are typically fitted with a double exponential function to determine two different fluorescence lifetimes: a fast decay component (τ 1 ) and a slow decay component (τ 2 ).  [50]  Typically, the rapid decay component is mainly related to exciton recombination, surface states, or defect state nonradiative recombination. In contrast, the slow decay component is primarily related to free carrier recombination, band-to-band radiative recombination, and deep-level trap state recombination processes.  [62] [63] [64]  The average carrier lifetime calculated from τ 1 and τ 2 can reflect the recombination rate of carriers. However, in some cases, using the stretched exponential model and the dynamic model can better fit the curve. The stretched exponential is used to describe heterogeneity in space or time, where the stretching factor (β) can characterize the heterogeneity of the local lifetime distribution, such as the recombination behavior of photogenerated carriers at different depths or locations.  [46]  The dynamic trapping model explains the phenomenon where electrons are captured by defect states during their diffusion in the thin film. Thicker films require more time to complete electron diffusion, which delays the trapping process, resulting in the "stretched" behavior observed in the decay curve.  [65]  If nonradiative recombination can be effectively suppressed by reducing the density of trap states, the average carrier lifetime can be significantly extended. This extended carrier lifetime is of great significance for improving the performance of optoelectronic devices. Jiang et al. used three structurally similar carbonyl additives, 4-(N, N-Diphenylamino)-benzaldehyde (DLBA), Biphenyl-4carboxaldehyde (BLCA), and 4-Acetyl-biphenyl (BLC), to study the effect of their molecular properties on the defect passivation of perovskite films. The PL intensity of perovskite films with different polarity additives DLBA, BLCA, and BLC incorporated into perovskite films was 1.98, 1.76, and 1.52 times that of the original film (Figure  5a ), respectively, indicating that these additives can effectively passivate defects, especially DLBA. Compared with the original film (τ ave = 342.7 ns), the average carrier lifetimes of DLBA (τ ave = 496.4 ns), BLCA (τ ave = 464.2 ns), and BLC (τ ave = 453.8 ns) modified perovskite films were increased (Figure  5b ), resulting in enhanced crystallinity. These molecules, especially the most polar DLBA, can effectively reduce defects.  [66]  Similarly, Peng et al. introduced a porous insulator contact (PIC) with a thickness of %100 nm as a surface modification into (FA 0.95 MA 0.05 ) 0.95 Cs 0.05 Pb(I 0.95 B 0.05 ) 3 perovskite films. Experiments found that within the PIC concentration range of 0.7 to 2 mg mL À1 , the PL quantum yield (PLQY) of perovskite films was enhanced, as shown in Figure  5d . Consistent with the enhancement of PLQY, PIC samples within the same concentration range exhibited a significant slowdown in TRPL decay, indicating that the bulk and surface nonradiative recombination processes of the perovskite material were suppressed, thereby extending the carrier lifetime (Figure  5c ). Additionally, researchers explored the applicability of PIC on different substrates. By using a self-assembled monolayer [4-(3,6-dimethyl-9H-carbazol-9-yl)butyl] phosphonic acid (Me-4PACz) to passivate the PTAA/perovskite interface, the ITO/Me-4PACz/perovskite structure exhibited a biexponential decay feature (Figure  5e ), including a fast decay and a long lifetime τ of up to 880 ns, corresponding to an achievable V OC of 1.18 V. When the Me-4PACz surface was coated with PIC, the lifetime τ further increased by %4.4 times, as shown in Figure  5f . For different concentrations of PIC ranging from 0.7 to 2 mg mL À1 , the increase in carrier lifetime τ in the Me-4PACz/ PIC/perovskite structure showed high consistency.  [67]  Meanwhile, the TRPL and PLQY trends in this structure were very similar to those in the glass/PIC/perovskite structure. This consistency indicates that the passivation effects of PIC and Me-4PACz can be successfully combined in perovskite devices, further confirming that passivation significantly reduces the bulk and surface nonradiative recombination losses in perovskite materials. 
 TRPL to Evaluate the Interface Charge Transfer In PSCs, photoexcited charge carriers must traverse the bulk perovskite material before reaching the interface between the perovskite and the CTL. Subsequently, these carriers are transferred to the CTL and eventually collected by the two electrodes. This entire process is called charge extraction.  [68]  The competition between the efficiency of charge extraction and the rate of charge recombination has a decisive impact on the performance of PSC devices. To achieve efficient charge extraction, it is necessary to ensure rapid diffusion of charges within the perovskite and their swift transfer from the perovskite to the CTL. At the same time, suppressing the kinetics of charge recombination is also crucial.  [69]  Yun et al. proposed an innovative method of adding NiO nanotubes to the perovskite precursor solution during preparation (Figure  6a ). To evaluate the potential impact of NiO nanotubes on charge extraction performance, they conducted TRPL decay tests on the glass/perovskite layer/HTL structure. Figure  6b  shows the TRPL decay curves of perovskite films formed on the Spiro-OMeTAD HTL. Experimental results showed that compared to the control group, the charge in the perovskite films with NiO nanotubes exhibited a faster decay rate during transfer to the HTL.  [70]  During the annealing process, the presence of NiO nanotubes promotes the growth of perovskite crystals, which helps to improve the charge extraction efficiency. The increase in crystal size enhances the crystallinity of the Reproduced with permission.  [66]  Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. c) TRPL decays of the glass/PIC/perovskite stacks. Al 2 O 3 nanoplates (d = 100 nm) with concentrations of 0 to 2 mg ml À1 were used to form different coverage fractions. d) Normalized PLQY and t of glass/PIC/perovskite stacks (indicated as PIC sample) relative to the control sample. e) TRPL decays of ITO/HTL/PIC/perovskite stacks, where the HTL is Me-4PACz. f ) Substantially improved perovskite bulk lifetime (τ b ) and surface recombination velocity (SRV) in the PIC sample. Reproduced with permission.  [67]  Copyright 2023, American Association for the Advancement of Science. perovskite films and reduces the likelihood of charge trapping at the grain boundaries. Additionally, NiO nanotubes located near the grain boundaries can partially absorb the charges generated in the perovskite, thereby inhibiting the recombination process and reducing the number of charge traps, facilitating effective charge transfer. The improved crystallinity of the perovskite films and the enhanced charge extraction efficiency together contribute to the overall performance enhancement of PSCs. Shi et al. developed a new strategy to convert the conventional passivation into nanoparticles (NPs) using a low-temperature nanoprecipitation method and introduced them into bulk perovskite films. Adding these NPs to perovskite ink not only regulates perovskite crystallization and improves film quality and conductivity but also enables overall bulk film passivation.  [71]  The results indicate that the perovskite-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) NP films exhibit significant PL quenching (Figure  6c ), manifested as a reduction in PL intensity, due to the extraction of electrons from the perovskite film into the PCBM NPs. Furthermore, after adding PCBM NPs to the perovskite films, the TRPL curves fit a biexponential decay equation (Figure  6d ), and the carrier lifetime decreased from 803 to 416 ns, which is consistent with the electron extraction observed in the steady-state PL spectra. As a result, blade-coated p-i-n PSCs using organic semiconductor NPs exhibited higher PCE. Additionally, Chen et al. conducted a detailed study on the electron extraction process between FA 0.83 Cs 0.17 Pb(I 0.83 Br 0.17 ) 3 perovskite and TiO 2 single crystals with different crystallographic orientations (100), (110), (111). The degree of PL quenching is closely related to the CB energy level offset between TiO 2 and the perovskite (Figure  6e ). The PL signal quenching is more pronounced when the energy level offset between the two materials is larger. Although TRPL decay curves are primarily used to monitor electron-hole recombination processes, other nonradiative recombination and charge extraction processes may also affect the decay patterns. Therefore, a three-exponential function is used to fit the PL decay curves, with the initial evaluation based on the average lifetime. Typically, compared to glass substrates, the average lifetime of perovskite films deposited on TiO 2 substrates is significantly shortened (τ avg = 24.0 ns), which is also reflected in the PL decay curves (Figure  6f  ). Considering that the quality of the perovskite layers on different substrates is the same, the accelerated PL decay on TiO 2 substrates indicates that electron extraction significantly contributes to the overall PL decay. Specifically, the perovskite layer deposited on the TiO 2 (100) crystal orientation exhibits the shortest average lifetime (τ avg = 8.8 ns), closely related to the larger CB energy level difference at this interface.  [72]  In contrast, the PL decay on TiO 2 (110) crystal orientation is the least affected (τ avg = 16.7 ns), and its CB energy level difference is also the smallest. TiO 2 (100)  crystal orientation has the largest CB and Fermi level offset, thus exhibiting the fastest overall electron and hot electron transfer rates. Reproduced with permission.  [70]  Copyright 2016, Royal Society of Chemistry. c) Steady-state PL and d) TRPL spectra of control perovskite and perovskite-PCBMNPs films. Insets show the film stacks for the measurements. Solid lines are biexponential decay fitting curves. Reproduced with permission.  [71]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. e) Band positions and Fermi level alignment of glass/perovskite sample and single-crystal TiO 2 /perovskite samples. Error bars are obtained from measurements performed on three different samples. f ) TRPL decay curves were recorded at 750 nm of perovskite layers deposited on other substrates. Excitation wavelength: 467 nm. Excitation fuence: 29 nJ cm À2 . Reproduced with permission.  [72]  Copyright 2024, American Chemical Society. In perovskite devices, the generation, recombination, and migration of charge carriers are critical steps, and these steps often occur rapidly within a concise time frame, from femtoseconds to nanoseconds. To accurately track these transient behaviors of charge carriers, it is crucial to use time-resolved ultrafast spectroscopy techniques.  [73, 74]  As a widely used transient spectroscopy analysis method, TA spectroscopy can adopt two different detection modes, transmission or reflection, depending on the sample's geometry, and these modes are directly related to the adequate penetration depth of light in the sample. When analyzing perovskite materials, the transmission mode is mainly used to study the recombination process of charge carriers within the material, providing important information about the defect states in the bulk phase. Conversely, the reflection mode focuses on analyzing the decay processes of charge carriers near the surface or interface, thereby revealing the dynamic transport properties of interface carriers (Figure  7a ).  [75]  Figure  7 . a) Two modes of TA spectroscopy based on perovskite photovoltaic devices. Reproduced with permission.  [75]  Copyright 2023, Elsevier. b,c) Under 700 nm laser excitation, with an input carrier density of %1 Â 10 18 cm À3 , TA spectra of CsPbI 3 and P-CsPbI 3 films were measured at several pumpprobe delay times. d) TA kinetics of MAPbBr 3 film were detected at the energy band edge (525 nm) (dark blue), overlapping with PL kinetics at the energy band edge (530 nm, light blue) and 1000 nm (red). Reproduced with permission.  [81]  Copyright 2019, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. e,f ) Under 530 nm laser excitation, with an input carrier density of %2.2 Â 10 18 cm À3 , TA spectra of CsPbI 3 and P-CsPbI 3 films were measured at several pump-probe delay times. Inset: Time evolution of the center position of the PB signal. Reproduced with permission.  [80]  Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. g) TA kinetics of MAPbI 3 film were detected at 770 nm (dark blue), overlapping with PL kinetics at 780 nm, light blue. h) TA measurements of the sample treated with 1 mg mL À1 FAI (at various time delays). i) Comparison of the decays of ground state bleach in all three studied samples. Reproduced with permission.  [82]  Copyright 2020, American Chemical Society. 
 Application of TA in the Analysis of Carrier Dynamics Due to the rapid generation and cooling of hot carriers make their dynamic processes difficult to interpret. As a result, researchers have utilized TA spectroscopy in combination with simulations to model the behavior of hot carriers in semiconductors under light excitation. The high-energy tails observed in TA spectra represent the distribution of thermalized carriers occupying near-continuous high-energy states. This distribution can be approximated using the Maxwell-Boltzmann function, expressed as:  [76, 77]  ΔAðhvÞ ¼ ÀA 0 exp À hv À E f k B T c þ PIA (1) where ΔA represents the bleach signal strength, while A 0 is a constant. The probe energy is symbolized by hv, and the Boltzmann constant is denoted as k B . Equation (  1 ) can be employed to calculate T c by fitting the temperature of charge carriers to the high-energy tail of the bleach signal. A PIA signal appears over a wide spectral range, and the central energy of the band-edge bleaching signal in this range is represented as E f , which is a result of the Burstein-Mott shift.  [76]  The change in absorption intensity for different signal contributions can be expressed as:  [78]  ΔAðtÞ ¼ ÀGSB þ SE þ PIA (2) where GSB denotes ground-state bleaching, corresponding to a negative signal; SE denotes excited-state emission, corresponding to a negative signal; and PIA denotes photoinduced absorption, corresponding to a positive signal. By obtaining TA data, a two-dimensional matrix of wavelength and time can be obtained. Subsequently, by fitting the kinetic curves of the ground-state bleaching signals using the relevant software,  [79]  it is possible to study the carrier dynamics in perovskite thin films and to understand the composite mechanism and defective states to assess the efficiency and stability of the devices. Figure  7b, c  shows the TA spectra results of pristine CsPbI 3 and passivated (P-CsPbI 3 ) films overtime under 700 nm excitation by Wang et al.  [80]  In both sets of TA data, two main features are observed: a negative photoinduced bleaching (PB) peak at 714 nm and a positive PIA peak at 670 nm. Arrows in the spectra indicate the recovery processes of the PA and PB signals. The PB peak near the optical bandgap at 714 nm arises from band filling by charge carriers. Initially, the PB peak at 713 nm undergoes a blue shift due to redshift from bandgap renormalization and blueshift from band filling. After 0.1 ps, the PB peak position stabilizes while the PA peak rapidly decays, eventually leading to a negative signal due to the substantial overlap of PA and PB signals. This decay process reflects the capture dynamics of free carriers, indicating changes in the defect population after passivation. With extended detection time, the recovery dynamics rather than the capture process in the TA data become the primary evidence for the recombination mechanism. Figure  7e ,f shows the TA results of CsPbI 3 and P-CsPbI 3 films excited by a pump wavelength with higher photon energy (2.34 eV, 530 nm). Under these conditions, electrons and holes are immediately excited to higher energy states and undergo initial thermalization upon relaxing to the hot carrier without energy loss. The spectral features of unpassivated CsPbI 3 under 530 nm excitation differ significantly from those excited by 700 nm. Comparing the results shown in Figure  7d ,g, an intense and rapid PB at around 710 nm is observed, indicating that many hot carriers fill the band edge according to the Fermi-Dirac distribution.  [44]  The spectra indicate that the capture process of charge carriers slows down after passivation due to the reduction of deep defects, transitioning to shallow defects. Motti et al. revealed defect activities in MAPbBr 3 and MAPbI 3 perovskite films using TA spectroscopy.  [81]  In this study, the authors conducted a detailed comparative analysis of the interband recombination dynamics of these films, probing at the band edges of MAPbBr 3 and MAPbI 3 films at 525 and 770 nm, respectively. Both films exhibited photobleaching effects due to the filling of states caused by photoexcitation. Photobleaching is the permanent damage to a material caused by a laser or light, resulting in a decrease in light absorption. This photobleaching signal is closely related to the recombination density of electrons in the CB and holes in the valence band, allowing it to reflect radiative and nonradiative recombination mechanisms, including those involving trap-assisted processes. Although trapped carriers may not directly cause photobleaching, their presence can induce charge imbalance in the opposite bands, indirectly leading to the observed photobleaching signal. In MAPbBr 3 films, the dynamic changes of photobleaching exhibit fast and slow lifetime components, as shown in Figure  7d , corresponding to interband decay and subgap emission in the infrared region, respectively, with the latter being related to recombination of trapped carriers. In MAPbI 3 films, a broad emission band with a peak around 1000 nm (1.2 eV) and a relatively short lifetime was observed. However, the photobleaching dynamics described in Figure  7g  further indicate that trapped carriers are present in MAPbI 3 on a microsecond timescale and undergo decay. This also suggests that the decay of trapped carriers is a common phenomenon on a microsecond timescale. However, these trapped carriers may not be easily observed directly due to weak emissivity or deep trapping.  [32]  Additionally, Xin et al. confirmed the defect-healing effect in MAFAPbI 3Àx Br x perovskite films using TA spectroscopy. In this study, MAFAPbI 3Àx Br x films were treated with two different concentrations: one with pure isopropanol (IPA) without any additives and the other with an isopropanol solution containing 1 mg mL À1 formamidinium iodide (FAI). In the experiment, the films were excited with a 532 nm pulsed laser, including untreated control films, films treated with pure IPA, and films treated with the FAI/IPA solution. At 780 nm, the authors observed GSB signals (Figure  7h ), indicating the formation of free carriers in the material due to the high absorption rate at 532 nm (over 99%). Meanwhile, Figure  7i  shows the average decay curves of GSB signals for the three samples, measured in the wavelength range of 770 to 780 nm. The measured average lifetimes were 1595 nanoseconds for the control film, 1629 nanoseconds for the pure IPA-treated film, and 1910 nanoseconds for the FAI/IPA solution-treated film. TA lifetime analysis results indicated that the FAI-treated sample exhibited the most extended average lifetime, reflecting that FAI treatment can significantly reduce the defect density in the material.  [82]   
 TA to Evaluate the Interface Charge Transfer Efficient charge carrier extraction is critical for PSCs. Ren et al. performed a detailed analysis using TA spectroscopy to investigate how formamidinium (FA) gradient doping influences charge carrier dynamics at various n-value phase interfaces in perovskite materials. In the forward-pumped TA spectra (Figure  8a, b ), the position of the GSB peak shifts from 740 to 750 nm, aligning with changes observed in PL, thereby confirming FA doping's spectral modulation effect on the material. Under reverse excitation conditions (Figure  8c, d ), three different GSB peaks are detected, revealing the presence of different n-value phases. For the FA0 film, the intensity of the GSB peak decreases within 100 ps, indicating that charge transfer between the small n-value phase and the large n-value phase is restricted, leading to local charge accumulation. FA doping further reduces the GSB signal of the small n-value phase, while the GSB signal corresponding to the phase with n-value approaching infinity increases over time, indicating that gradient FA doping effectively promotes charge transfer from the small n-value phase to the larger n-value phase. The FA10 sample exhibits the shortest bleaching rise time among all tested samples. This result indicates that 10% FA doping forms a gradient structure within the film, facilitating efficient charge transfer from the bottom low n-value phase to the high n-value surface layer, reducing charge accumulation and thereby enhancing the performance of the solar cell.  [83]  Similarly, the study by Park et al. also used TA spectroscopy to investigate the carrier dynamics in mixed perovskite films. As shown in Figure  8g , the TA spectra of FAPbI 3 and mixed perovskite films with different amounts of MAPbBr 3 indicate that the carrier recombination time for low mol% samples increases with the addition of MAPbBr 3 , whereas samples with 10% and 20% mol show faster carrier dynamics compared to pure FAPbI 3 . Additionally, as the excited carrier density increases, an accelerated overall decay rate is observed, suggesting the involvement of higher-order recombination processes. Meanwhile, with the increase in MAPbBr 3 content, the blue shift of the PB1 band peak around 800 nm aligns with the shift of the excitonic transition peak in the linear absorption spectrum (Figure  8e, f  ). Furthermore, at higher MAPbBr 3 content, new spectral bands are observed near the PIA2 band (500 to 650 nm), and the weak peak positions of these bands coincide with the negative peak positions in the second derivative of the linear absorption   c, d ) Back-side excitation TA spectra of FA0 and FA10 films. Reproduced with permission.  [83]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH GmbH. e,f ) Evolution of TA spectra of mixed perovskite films with 0.5 and 20 mol % MAPbBr 3 content at different time delays. g) PB1-band normalized recombination kinetics of pure perovskite and hybrid perovskite films measured by TA. Reproduced with permission.  [84]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH GmbH. h,i) TA spectral reflectance pattern dynamics of pristine deposited perovskite and devices introducing SMe-TPA-CuPc HTL. Reproduced with permission.  [85]  Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH GmbH. spectrum, indicating that the wrinkles correspond to additional transition peaks. The authors believe that excessive distortion of the crystal structure introduces grain boundaries and additional transition states in the mixed perovskite. These additional transition states affect the carrier thermalization process, where carriers may be lost through trapping or direct recombination to the ground state. However, the additional transition states near the PIA2 band can temporarily retain carriers, reducing the thermal conductivity of high mol% samples and delaying carrier thermalization. This rapid carrier cooling dynamics and low carrier loss will facilitate the efficient extraction of carriers to the CTL.  [84]  In contrast, Qu et al. used TA spectroscopy in reflection mode to study the hole extraction capability of phthalocyanine derivatives (SMe-TPA-CuPc) as hole transport materials (Figure  8h, i ). The carrier diffusion rate and SRV of the original perovskite film were measured to be 0.85 AE 0.19 cm 2 s À1 and 1672 AE 200 cm s À1 , respectively. After introducing the HTL, surface hole extraction occurs, reducing the carrier concentration in the perovskite film, reflecting an effective surface extraction velocity (SEV). For device C, after annealing treatment with SMe-TPA-CuPc, SEV increased 12-fold to 21 000 AE 2000 cm s À1 , and the diffusion constant slightly increased to 1.03 AE 0.10 cm 2 s À1 . The significant increase in SEV indicates that the interaction of Pb-S bonds enhances charge transfer capability. After annealing, phthalocyanine molecules further diffuse into the perovskite grain boundaries, and the optimization of molecular orientation enhances the charge extraction effect, achieving the maximum surface charge extraction speed.  [85]   
 Application of TRMC in the Analysis of Carrier Dynamics TRMC technique is typically used to study the dynamics of photo-generated charge carriers in semiconductor materials characterized by low background conductivity. TRMC relies on the interaction between mobile charge carriers and microwave electric field components, allowing the determination of photoconductivity without the influence of interface effects between the perovskite film and metal electrodes. 
 TRMC to Evaluate the Quality and Defect State of Bulk Perovskite In the experiment shown in Figure  9a , laser pulses generate free carriers or excitons, which interact with the microwave field. Only free carriers interact with the microwaves, and the microwave energy is absorbed only by the mobile free charge carriers, leading to a decay in the microwave signal. This phenomenon can be used to probe the photoconductivity of semiconductor materials. At the moment of photoexcitation, the generation of charge carriers leads to an increase in photoconductivity ΔG. Subsequently, the carriers gradually decrease through recombination processes or get trapped in defect states, leading to the decay of ΔG.  [34, 86]  Based on the initial amplitude of TRMC, the product of the charge carrier generation yield φ and the mobility μ can be calculated, where φ represents the charge carrier generation yield (the number of free carriers generated per absorbed photon) and Σμ is the sum of the electron and hole mobilities. The change in photoconductivity ΔG is given by the following equation: ϕΣμ ¼ ΔG I 0 F A eβ (3) In this context, I 0 refers to the laser intensity, which is typically measured by the power or energy of a known laser source. F A represents the fraction of laser light absorption, also referred to as absorbance. e denotes the electron charge. Additionally, β is the geometric factor of the microwave cavity, used to correct the microwave response of the sample within the cavity; this value is determined by the physical dimensions and design of the cavity and is a known constant in the experimental setup. ϕ represents the yield of free charge carriers, so its variation will affect the initial amplitude of ΔG during photoexcitation. If the initial values of the normalized curves differ, it typically indicates a change in ϕ. Changes in mobility μ affect the efficiency of charge carrier transport within the material, particularly reflected in the decay rate of the signal. If the signal decays more quickly or slowly, it indicates a change in mobility μ, as μ determines the rates of charge carrier diffusion and recombination. Yao et al. studied the charge carrier transport properties of FA 0.83 Cs 0.17 PbI 2.7 Br 0.3 and butylammonium bromide (BABr)treated FA 0.83 Cs 0.1 7PbI 2.7 Br 0.3 perovskite films under 530 nm laser pulse excitation at different light intensities (10 10 -10 13 photons cm À2 pulse À1 ) using the TRMC method, as shown in Figure  9b . In all perovskite films, with increasing laser intensity, ϕΣμ decreased, and ΔG decay became faster.  [86]  This behavior is attributed to the second-order recombination process occurring in the samples. However, the annealed films treated with BABr exhibited slower ΔG decay due to the detrapping process of trapped carriers by the BABr treatment. This ultimately led to an increase in carrier lifetime, as shown in Figure  9c . Hu et al. recently reported a method for surface passivation of 1.68 eV wide-bandgap (WBG) perovskite films by optimizing 1,3propane-diammonium iodide (PDAI 2 ).  [87]  The changes in the product of carrier generation rate and mobility of WBG perovskite films are treated with different concentrations of PDAI 2 solution under 530 nm laser pulse excitation (Figure  9d ). As free carriers are generated, the signal shows a rapid growth trend. A decrease in carrier concentration will reduce photoconductivity if the carrier mobility remains constant during the measurement. The WBG perovskite film treated with 1 mg mL À1 PDAI 2 solution showed the highest mobility, indicating better quality and lower carrier recombination rate. Moreover, as shown in Figure  9e , the normalized TRMC signal of the perovskite film treated with 1 mg mL À1 PDAI 2 solution displayed a slower decay during the trapping and releasing process, indicating a reduction in first-order recombination losses. Surface passivation with a PDAI 2 solution can effectively improve the optoelectronic performance of WBG perovskite films. Additionally, Li et al. conducted an in-depth study on the ultra-long carrier lifetime induced by metal cations in perovskite materials. Figure  9f  shows the typical TRMC decay curves of samples with different Na þ contents. As a control, the TRMC lifetime of Na þ -undoped formamidinium-cesium (FACs) type perovskite (FA 0.83 Cs 0.17 PbI 3 ) is %1 us. Experimental results show that with the increase of Na þ content, the carrier lifetime significantly extends, with the longest lifetime even exceeding 100 us. The TRMC curves of FACs perovskite samples doped with different metal ions were fitted and analyzed, as shown in Figure  9g . With the incorporation of Na þ , the TRMC curves of FACs perovskite show enhanced shallow trap characteristics, while the deep trap characteristics are weakened.  [88]  In contrast, Rb þ has a more minor impact on the photoconductivity of FACs perovskite. Moreover, the maximum hysteresis of Na þ -doped samples also suggests the presence of a carrier trapping process. This indicates that specific cations can significantly extend the carrier lifetime, which may be closely related to forming shallow trap states in the material. ) for perovskite films with 5 mg mL À1 BABr with and without thermal annealing. Reproduced with permission.  [86]  Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. d) TRMC transients of surface treatment with PDAI 2 . e) Normalized TRMC signal of films. Reproduced with permission.  [87]  Copyright 2024, Elsevier. f ) Normalized TRMC decays of FACs perovskites with and without incorporation of various amounts of Na þ . g) Normalized TRMC decays of the control and 5% Li þ , 5% Na þ , 5% K þ , 5% Rb þ , and 5% Sr 2þ incorporated FACs perovskites fitted with the kinetic model. Reproduced with permission.  [88]  Copyright 2023, AIP Publishing LLC. 
 TRMC to Evaluate the Interface Charge Transfer The dynamic characteristics of charge carriers are typically investigated using time-resolved techniques with pulsed illumination sources. However, the dynamic parameters obtained from these time-resolved analyses do not always accurately reflect the behavior under steady-state illumination conditions. The complex interactions of various photophysical processes over different timescales, along with the unwanted effects of ion diffusion on the internal electric field, make the interpretation of measurement results extremely challenging. Considering these challenges, performing quantitative studies on charge carrier extraction at the perovskite/transport layer (TL) interface under steady-state illumination conditions becomes especially important.  [89, 90]  Bias illumination (BI) simulates the charge carrier environment during actual operation through continuous illumination. BI refers to a continuous light source that can provide constant illumination. This stable illumination method helps create a steady-state photo-generated charge carrier environment, allowing for the observation of transient changes induced by additional pulsed excitation (Figure  10a ). To investigate whether long-lived charge carriers exist in the TLs of the Cs 0.05 MA 0.1 FA 0.85 Pb(I 0.97 Br 0.03 ) 3 (CsMAFA) in the trilayer structure, Zhao et al. conducted a comparative analysis using white LED and TRMC under different BI conditions on bare CsMAFA layers and C 60 /CsMAFA/Spiro trilayer structures.  [91]  Under BI conditions, the extraction of charges to the TLs leads to the formation of charge carrier equilibrium between CsMAFA and TLs before the pulse excitation. Under low BI conditions, the carriers in the TLs are not yet saturated, and the laser pulse can induce further charge extraction (Figure  10c, d ). Under high BI conditions, the TLs are near saturation and cannot extract more charges. Therefore, under high BI conditions, the TRMC signals observed in the single-layer and trilayer structures are similar (Figure  10e, f  ). These BI-induced changes are entirely reversible, indicating that all the perovskite layers and TLs remain stable during the BI process. This provides valuable insights into how charge collection and recombination at the perovskite/TL interfaces affect the performance of PSCs based on FA-rich perovskites. Caselii et al. conducted TRMC measurements on single-layer and bilayer structures both with and without bathophenanthroline (BI). In bare MAPbI 3 under BI,   [91]  Copyright 2024, American Chemical Society. the density of deep traps increases, leading to significant trap-mediated losses.  [92]  Conversely, in the MAPbI 3 /C 60 bilayer under BI, a slight increase in trap state concentration suggests that C 60 inhibits the formation of additional deep trap states. This reversible process is observed in the C 60 bilayer but not in Spiro-OMeTAD. Under BI conditions, extraction rates decrease significantly in both layers; specifically, interfacial recombination increases only in MAPbI 3 /Spiro-OMeTAD. These findings underscore the critical role of tuning the Fermi level of the transport layer to mitigate interfacial recombination losses and optimize charge dynamics. 
 Application of OPTP in the Analysis of Carrier Dynamics Terahertz frequency range spectroscopy is a powerful tool that allows the examination of charge carriers, as their presence significantly alters the dielectric response of the medium in the low-frequency range. OPTP spectroscopy provides additional time-resolved capabilities, measuring the electric field amplitude (ΔT/T ) of a single-cycle terahertz pulse transmitted through the sample as a function of time delay after photoexcitation (Figure  11a ).  [93]  The subsequent decay of the photoconductive signal is usually attributed to charge carrier dynamics, such as recombination or interfacial transfer. For photoconductive materials, the recorded transients typically reflect changes in photoconductivity, σ = enμ, where e is the elementary charge, n is the photoinduced charge carrier density, and μ is the charge carrier mobility. Therefore, by understanding the absorbed photon density and the photon charge branching ratio φ, the carrier mobility can be extracted noncontactly from the initial value of ΔT/T. The time resolution provided by OPTP is limited only by the (sub-picosecond) pulse duration. It allows for recording the full amplitude waveform of the terahertz pulse, from which the time-varying conductivity spectrum in the terahertz region can be extracted, enabling analysis of conduction mechanisms.  [94]  This formula is used in OPTP experiments to extract charge carrier mobility (μ) and quantum efficiency (ϕ): ϕμ ¼ Àε 0 cð1 þ n substrate Þ A eff hc Eeλð1 À R pump Þð1 À T pump Þ ΔT T ( 4 ) Figure  11 . a) Schematic illustration of the OPTP measurement. Reproduced with permission.  [93]  Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society. b) Schematic of the two-level mobility model used to fit the OPTP decays. c) OPTP photoconductivity transients for a Cs 2 AgBiBr 6 thin film, measured at the temperatures shown in the legend under an excitation fluence of 10.1 μ Jcm À2 . Reproduced with permission.  [95]  Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. d,e) Effective contributions to the overall free charge carrier population decay rate as a function of number density for the 2D/3D films with (top) and without (bottom) the AT additive. f,g) Fitted OPTP transient data from the mixed films with and without AT at 780 nm. Reproduced with permission.  [97]  Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH GmbH. Transient THz transmission response of six 2D/3D heterophase perovskite films with the composition of x p-FPEA 2 PbI 4 /FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 PbI 3 photoexcited at 400 nm. Symbols represent experimental data, while solid lines are the fitting data using a biexponential function. h) x = 4.76%, i) x = 13.04%, j) x = 16.67%, and k) x = 23.08%. Reproduced with permission.  [96]  Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH GmbH. where ϕ represents the number of photo-generated carriers per incident photon, μ is the mobility, ε 0 is the vacuum permittivity, c is the speed of light, n substrate is the refractive index of the substrate material, A eff is the effective absorption area, h is Planck's constant, E is the energy of the incident light, e is the electron charge, λ is the wavelength of the incident light, R pump is the reflectance of the pump light, T pump is the transmittance of the pump light, and ΔT/T is the relative change in terahertz transmission intensity, indicating the change in terahertz pulse transmission intensity before and after pump light excitation. Wright et al. conducted OPTP measurements on Cs 2 AgBiBr 6 films at different temperatures to study the evolution of photoexcited carriers. Terahertz absorption spectra revealed a distinct fast decay component in all photoconductive transients (Figure  11c ), which was more pronounced at lower temperatures, followed by a longer decay process. The behavior of charge carriers transitioning from one state to another in OPTP terahertz photoconductive transients was described by constructing a simplified two-level model to depict the early charge carrier dynamics (Figure  11b ). This model considers two excitation states of carriers: a delocalized state associated with higher mobility μ deloc and a localized state associated with lower mobility μ loc . Photoexcitation initially occurs in the delocalized state, followed by carrier localization to the localized state at a rate of K loc . This model describes the evolution of carrier density over time in each state and relates it to the ÀΔT/T values obtained from sheet conductivity measurements in OPTP transients for a more accurate understanding and fitting of the transient behavior. Although the initially photoexcited delocalized charge carriers exhibited band-like transport characteristics, the self-trapped small polaron states displayed temperature-dependent mobility.  [95]  Nevertheless, under room temperature conditions, the mobilities of both states still exceeded 1 cm 2 V À1 s À1 . Observations indicate that strong electron-phonon coupling in this material induced rapid carrier localization. Additionally, Milot et al. used OPTP spectroscopy to measure the effective carrier mobility and recombination mechanisms of 2D/3D hybrid Pb-Sn iodide perovskite films with ammonium thiocyanate (AT) as a precursor additive. Within the range of carrier concentrations tested, the bimolecular recombination process dominated the AT films, as shown in Figure  11f ,g. Conversely, the bimolecular recombination rate decreased in films without AT, making Auger recombination the primary mechanism. The upper limit of the bimolecular recombination rate, ϕk 2 , shown by the AT-free films, was significantly lower than the measured value for the AT-containing films, indicating a lower bimolecular recombination rate, thereby leading to Auger recombination becoming dominant. The observed decrease in the bimolecular recombination rate in AT-free films may be related to external factors such as morphology, crystallinity, and the reduced prominence of 2D domains.  [42]  Bimolecular recombination of free carriers is typically associated with radiative recombination, a band-to-band process. The increased emissivity of the AT-containing films can be attributed to the significant increase in the bimolecular recombination rate, which further significantly enhanced the RP phase purity and emissivity of the films. Similarly, Hutchinson et al. used OPTP spectroscopy to measure the effective carrier mobility of x p-FPEA 2 PbI 4 /FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 PbI 3 perovskite films under a pump injection intensity of 14.2 mJ•cm À2 . When the 2D perovskite component Â values are 4.76%, 13.04%, 16.67%, and 23.08%, the corresponding charge carrier mobilities μ of the Â PEA 2 PbI 4 /FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 PbI 3 perovskite films are 10.65, 14.20, 14.98, and 14.05 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , respectively. As the content of the 2D perovskite component increases, the φμ values show a trend of first increasing and then decreasing (Figure  11h-k ). The maximum charge carrier mobility is achieved at x = 16.67%. The attachment of 2D perovskites to 3D perovskites may trigger two competing effects: on the one hand, passivation effects may enhance optoelectronic performance; on the other hand, poorer optoelectronic performance may negatively impact overall performance.  [96]  The type-I band alignment between the 3D perovskite FA 0.8 Cs 0.2 PbI 3 and the 2D perovskite allows the 2D perovskite to act as a barrier to reduce charge traps and recombination while promoting charge separation and collection, which helps to increase carrier mobility and prolong lifetime in the 2D/3D perovskite system. However, compared to 3D perovskites, 2D perovskites have poorer optoelectronic performance, resulting in a decrease in carrier mobility in the 2D/3D perovskite system as the 2D perovskite content increases.  [97]  Therefore, reasonable selection of the composition content of 2D perovskites is crucial for developing highperformance 2D/3D perovskite systems, requiring a balance between passivation effects and optoelectronic performance. 
 Conclusion and Future Perspectives In recent years, the use of spectroscopic characterization techniques to identify bulk and surface defects in semiconductor materials has garnered attention, leading to the development of various composite characterization techniques. The study of key dynamic processes, such as carrier recombination and interfacial charge transfer, is typically achieved using optical pumpprobe techniques. The advantage of these techniques lies in their ability to regulate the number of excited state carriers and perform dynamic analysis of trap states in perovskite materials. However, since thermal carriers tend to distribute near the band edges, the signal generated by pulsed excitation may be interfered with by other effects, requiring researchers to eliminate these interferences to accurately obtain the response after carrier capture. Additionally, although TRPL can deeply analyze different radiative recombination pathways and study the reduction in photoluminescence quantum yield due to nonradiative losses, it has limitations in distinguishing nonradiative recombination pathways. Therefore, combining PL studies (cw and tr) with other transient techniques has become an effective strategy for screening new selective contact materials in PSCs. For example, in a bilayer structure composed of perovskite and transport layers, the shortening of PL lifetime may result from charge transfer at the interface or from rapid charge capture by interface defects. TRMC technology can distinguish between these two processes based on their lifetimes, as effective charge separation can infinitely extend the lifetime of mobile charges, while interfacial recombination leads to rapid quenching of mobile charges, resulting in sub-nanosecond lifetimes. Finally, TA can detect bleaching phenomena caused by photo-generated charges in each layer, which vary with time after excitation. The spectral resolution of TA helps distinguish between the perovskite layer and the transport layer. As long as the excitation density is kept low and the energy landscape is known, TA can be used to differentiate processes such as charge transfer and interfacial recombination occurring within the perovskite or transport layer. However, it is noteworthy that different transient techniques are usually conducted under different excitation density conditions, which may affect the accuracy of extrapolating experimental results to actual working conditions of solar cells. Despite the significant advantages of transient spectroscopy in probing carrier dynamics in perovskite systems, its spatial resolution is limited by the diffraction limit of the probe radiation. In addition, the physical limits of these tools depend heavily on the material properties they are intended to measure. For example, in techniques such as PL and TRPL, the detection limit of carrier lifetimes is limited by the temporal resolution of the detector, so TRPL can usually only detect carrier lifetimes in excess of 100 ps. However, the time resolution of the detector is basically determined by the pulse width, which is generally determined by the gain medium of the oscillator, the resonant cavity, etc. Therefore, theoretically, if the pulse width of the laser is less than 100 ps, lower carrier lifetimes can be tested. Meanwhile, in the typical exponential mathematical model of TRPL,  [98]  the radiative composite coefficient and nonradiative composite coefficient of the material, as the intrinsic constants of the material, affect the size of the carrier lifetime τ, which limits the physical limit of the composite time. In TA spectroscopy, the sensitivity to absorption changes depends on the absorption cross-section of the material, which is determined by the intrinsic optical properties of the material. In TRMC and OPTP, the detectable carrier mobility μ is affected by the intrinsic mobility and conductivity of the material, which is determined by the intrinsic electrical properties of the material. For materials with low conductivity, the signal may not be detected efficiently, resulting in an inability to adequately characterize the lowconductivity perovskite material. These material-related constants define the physical boundaries of the characterization method and, to some extent, represent the current detection limits. Therefore, to improve the accuracy of measurements at the microscopic scale, pump-probe techniques with higher temporal and spatial resolution are required. However, as science and technology progress, detectors will gradually become more accurate, thus pushing these limits even further, which allows for more precise analysis of perovskite materials and their dynamics. From a device characterization perspective, in situ testing of carrier dynamics in PSCs under specific voltage and illumination conditions remains challenging in the research field. Ion migration is one of the key factors leading to the instability of perovskite materials. Understanding its underlying mechanisms is crucial for inhibiting ion migration and improving the environmental stability of PSCs. Considering the chemical and phase stability of perovskite materials, maintaining their phase under various testing conditions is another challenge. Typically, perovskite samples are tested in ambient air with specific humidity and oxygen content, which may reduce their chemical and phase stability. Additionally, photoelectric measurements under intense light, high temperature, or strong electric fields may cause perovskite degradation, ion migration, or phase transitions, affecting the accuracy of interface-related measurements. Therefore, more straightforward sample preparation methods or nondestructive techniques will facilitate the broader adoption of these technologies and generate more data. Simultaneously measuring in situ morphology and intrinsic optoelectronic properties is essential for revealing the behavior of interface materials at precise locations. Moreover, using ultrafast optical techniques to calculate parameters such as defect density can complement other measurement techniques. This will help generate reliable data, deepen the understanding of the underlying physical mechanisms, build robust models, and provide accurate guidance for improving device performance and stability. The future improvement of PSC performance will heavily rely on a comprehensive understanding, identification, and regulation of bulk and interface defects in the material. These defects significantly impact nonradiative recombination processes and can notably alter the band alignment. Additionally, the stability issues of perovskite materials under environmental conditions have become a major obstacle to their long-term application and commercialization. An in-depth exploration of carrier dynamics and manufacturing techniques to create defect-free structures is especially critical to achieve higher PCE and meet stability standards. Therefore, developing defect passivation technologies, including additive engineering, material composition optimization, and interface modification treatments, is crucial for reducing defect density and improving device performance. Evaluating the effectiveness of these passivation technologies requires a precise analysis of defect state density and carrier dynamics. Although existing methods have made some progress in analyzing the microscopic mechanisms of perovskite materials and have helped develop more effective passivation strategies, limitations remain. Specifically, the techniques discussed in this article still require further optimization to enhance spatial resolution and accurately fit complex data models. This article reviews five different characterization methods for reasonably studying carrier dynamics in perovskite materials. Noninvasive tools (such as PL, TRPL, TRMC, and OPTP) are well-suited for research requiring high standards for samples, as they can provide detailed information about optical and electrical properties without significantly affecting the material itself. In contrast, invasive tools (such as field effect transistor (FET) and space charge limited current (SCLC)) require contact with the sample and are suitable for situations that demand precise electrical measurements, but this may affect the long-term performance and stability of the sample. However, SCLC does not provide specific information about the effects of defects or impurities, which may lead to sample degradation under high electric fields. Additionally, SCLC can measure only one type of defect density at a time, and due to the difficulty in accurately determining the junction point of the limiting voltage filled with traps, this may lead to deviations in estimating defect density, thus necessitating the fabrication of two types of electron and pure hole devices. The complex device structure of FET may lead to fabrication difficulties and sensitivity to environmental changes. However, the compositions and processes of different perovskite materials have a significant impact on the choice and effectiveness of characterization tools. For example, threedimensional perovskites such as MAPbI 3 , PL, and TRPL techniques can better characterize their radiative complexation paths, and due to their relatively narrow bandgap, these tools have high sensitivity in studying electron-hole complex dynamics. However, in two-dimensional or low-dimensional perovskites, the PL signal may be limited by a large excitation intensity due to quantum-limited-domain effects, resulting in the inability to accurately characterize their complex dynamics. The TA technique performs particularly well in studying the interfacial charge transfer process between perovskite and the transport layer and is especially suitable for bicationic chalcogenides (e.g., FA-Cs-based chalcogenides) with high carrier mobility. However, for materials with high defect densities, the TA signal may be interfered with by the rapid complexation process induced by the defect states. TRMC and OPTP perform superiorly in probing carrier mobility and conductivity properties, especially when investigating chalcogenides with long-distance bipolar transport properties, such as FA or FA-Cs-based perovskites. However, for materials with higher doping concentration or lower mobility, TRMC and OPTP may have difficulty in detecting effective signals. In addition, differences in processes (e.g., solution and vacuum deposition methods) can have an impact on the signal quality and resolution results of characterization tools. Table  2  summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques, highlighting which methods can reveal time-dependent carrier concentrations and which are highly sensitive to defect concentrations. A deeper and more comprehensive understanding of carrier dynamics can be expected by comprehensively utilizing these characterization techniques, thereby promoting the development of efficient and long-term stable PSCs. Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. a) Schematic diagram of the mechanism of PL. b) Schematic diagram of the working device of PL, which is usually used to measure transient PL decays.The pulsed laser diode is exciting the sample, whose luminescence is directed toward a detector (e.g., a photomultiplier tube connected with photon counting electronics. Reproduced with permission. [50]  Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. c) The energy band diagram showing the carrier excitation in TA, which results in the different bands in TA spectra (ground state bleaching (GSB), excited emission (SE), and photoinduced absorption (PIA)). d) Schematic illustration of ultrafast TA instrument. Reproduced with permission. [99]  Copyright 2020, Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute. e,g) Schematic diagrams of TRMC and OPTP measurements. Reproduced with permission. [33]  Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH GmbH. f ) Schematic representation of the TRMC setup. Reproduced with permission. [34]  Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH Verlag. h) Schematic representation of an OPTP experimental setup. Reproduced with permission. [94]  Copyright 2011, American Physical Society. 
 ). Additionally, Luo et al. evaluated the interfacial hole extraction between perovskite films and Spiro-OMeTAD with different dopants. As shown in Figure 4f, the pure 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) Spectral mapping. b) Overlapped intensity/spectral PL mapping. c) Cw-PL spectra of the grain interior and grain boundary (GB) regions.Reproduced with permission. [59]  Copyright 2017, Royal Society of Chemistry. d,e) PL imaging of devices with Li-TFSI and Fe(F20TPP)Cl doped in Spiro-OMeTAD, respectively. f ) Cw-PL spectra of glass/perovskite films with or without Li-TFSI and 1.5% Fe(F20TPP)Cl-doped Spiro-OMeTAD coverage. Reproduced with permission. [60]  Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. a) Steady-state PL spectra. b) TRPL spectra of perovskite films without and with DLBA, BLCA, and BLC treatment.Reproduced with permission. [66]  Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. c) TRPL decays of the glass/PIC/perovskite stacks. Al 2 O 3 nanoplates (d = 100 nm) with concentrations of 0 to 2 mg ml À1 were used to form different coverage fractions. d) Normalized PLQY and t of glass/PIC/perovskite stacks (indicated as PIC sample) relative to the control sample. e) TRPL decays of ITO/HTL/PIC/perovskite stacks, where the HTL is Me-4PACz. f ) Substantially improved perovskite bulk lifetime (τ b ) and surface recombination velocity (SRV) in the PIC sample. Reproduced with permission. [67]  Copyright 2023, American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. a) Schematic diagram of PSCs incorporating NiO nanotubes (NiO NTs) having the structure FTO/compact TiO 2 /NiO nanotube-perovskite (NiO NTs-MAPbI 3 )/spiro-OMeTAD/gold electrode. b) TRPL measurements of perovskite films.Reproduced with permission. [70]  Copyright 2016, Royal Society of Chemistry. c) Steady-state PL and d) TRPL spectra of control perovskite and perovskite-PCBMNPs films. Insets show the film stacks for the measurements. Solid lines are biexponential decay fitting curves. Reproduced with permission. [71]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH. e) Band positions and Fermi level alignment of glass/perovskite sample and single-crystal TiO 2 /perovskite samples. Error bars are obtained from measurements performed on three different samples. f ) TRPL decay curves were recorded at 750 nm of perovskite layers deposited on other substrates. Excitation wavelength: 467 nm. Excitation fuence: 29 nJ cm À2 . Reproduced with permission. [72]  Copyright 2024, American Chemical Society. 
 5. 1 . 1 TA to Evaluate the Quality and Defect State of Bulk Perovskite 
 Figure 8 . 8 Figure 8. a,b) Front-side single-sided excitation TA spectra of perovskite films based on FA0 and FA10. c,d) Back-side excitation TA spectra of FA0 and FA10 films.Reproduced with permission. [83]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH GmbH. e,f ) Evolution of TA spectra of mixed perovskite films with 0.5 and 20 mol % MAPbBr 3 content at different time delays. g) PB1-band normalized recombination kinetics of pure perovskite and hybrid perovskite films measured by TA. Reproduced with permission. [84]  Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH GmbH. h,i) TA spectral reflectance pattern dynamics of pristine deposited perovskite and devices introducing SMe-TPA-CuPc HTL. Reproduced with permission. [85]  Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH GmbH. 
 Figure 9 . 9 Figure 9. a) Schematic illustration of the TRMC measurement. b) TRMC transients as a function of the laser power I 0 . c) Transient 4G versus time induced by 530 nm laser light (10 11 photonscm À2 pulse À1) for perovskite films with 5 mg mL À1 BABr with and without thermal annealing. Reproduced with permission. [86]  Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. d) TRMC transients of surface treatment with PDAI 2 . e) Normalized TRMC signal of films. Reproduced with permission. [87]  Copyright 2024, Elsevier. f ) Normalized TRMC decays of FACs perovskites with and without incorporation of various amounts of Na þ . g) Normalized TRMC decays of the control and 5% Li þ , 5% Na þ , 5% K þ , 5% Rb þ , and 5% Sr 2þ incorporated FACs perovskites fitted with the kinetic model. Reproduced with permission. [88]  Copyright 2023, AIP Publishing LLC. 
 Figure 10 . 10 Figure 10. a) Illustration of photo-generated carriers in CsMAFA under pulsed laser combined with bias illumination. b) Kinetic model of charge carrier processes initiated by optical excitation of CsMAFA. TRMC traces recorded in bare CsMAFA (left panels) and C 60 /CsMAFA/Spiro trilayer (right panels) deposited on quartz (light gray) with c,d) low-intensity BI and e,f ) high-intensity BI. Reproduced with permission. [91]  Copyright 2024, American Chemical Society. 
 
 
 
 Table 1 . 1 Comparison of different diffusion models for analyzing TRPL curves. Model types Formula Preferred structure Possible physical mechanisms Extracted parameters References Single exponential IðtÞ ¼ A exp À t τ À Á þ c Perovskite with high Only radiative recombination Lifetime τ [98] crystallinity Multi Exponential IðtÞ ¼ P i A i exp À t τi þ c structures Perovskite with disordered nonradiative recombination Coexistence of radiative and Lifetime τ i Weighted amplitude A i [100-102] Average lifetime τ ave Stretched exponential τc IðtÞ ¼ I 0 exp À t β ! heterogeneity Perovskite with PL carrier recombination Coexistence of exciton and free Distribution parameter β Characteristic lifetime τ h i [26] Average lifetime τ h i Dynamic trapping IðtÞ ¼ A 1 exp À t τ1 β ! τ2 þ A 2 exp À t ! absorption coefficient or Perovskite with a large localized trapping and carrier Coexistence of exciton Lifetime τ i Weighted amplitude A i [65] thick films diffusion processes Distribution parameter β Average lifetime τ h i 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 
			 © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (8 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (9 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (10 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (11 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (13 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (14 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (15 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (16 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (17 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (18 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (19 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Adv. Photonics Res. 2024, 2400110 2400110 (20 of 22) © 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Photonics Research published by Wiley-VCH GmbH 26999293, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adpr.202400110 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [21/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
