Paper #: 140
Anion-π interactions suppress phase impurities in FAPbI 3 solar cells
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Supplementary Video 1. IPA evaporation rate test. One milliliter of IPA was added dropwise to a watch glass, and after 938 s, IPA volatilized 20% of its initial mass. Videos are played with 15x acceleration. 
 Supplementary Video 2. HFB evaporation rate test. One milliliter of HFB was added dropwise to a watch glass (the watch glass specification was the same as that used in Supplementary Video 1), and after 334 s, the HFB had volatilized 20% of its initial mass. This shows that the volatilization rate of HFB is higher than that of IPA under the same conditions. Videos are played with 15x acceleration. Cell Efficiency (%)   
 FhG-ISE LG NREL 
 Varian 
 Single-Junction GaAs 
 Single crystal Concentrator Thin-film crystal 
 Alta 
 Alta LG NREL NREL (MM) Achieving both high efficiency and long-term stability is the key to the commercialization of perovskite solar cells (PSCs)  1, 2  . However, the diversity of perovskite (ABX 3 ) compositions and phases makes it challenging to fabricate high-quality films  [3] [4] [5]  . Perovskite formation relies on the reaction between AX and BX 2 , whereas most conventional methods for film-growth regulation are based solely on the interaction with the BX 2 component. Herein, we demonstrate an alternative approach to modulate reaction kinetics by anion-π interaction between AX and hexafluorobenzene (HFB). Notably, these two approaches are independent but work together to establish 'dual-site regulation', which achieves a delicate control over the reaction between AX and BX 2 without unwanted intermediates. The resultant formamidinium lead halides (FAPbI 3 ) films exhibit fewer defects, redshifted absorption and high phase purity without detectable nanoscale δ phase. Consequently, we achieved PSCs with power conversion efficiency (PCE) up to 26.07% for a 0.08-cm 2 device (25.8% certified) and 24.63% for a 1-cm 2 device. The device also kept 94% of its initial PCE after maximum power point (MPP) tracking for 1,258 h under full-spectrum AM 1.5 G sunlight at 50 ± 5 °C. This method expands the range of chemical interactions that occur in perovskite precursors by exploring anion-π interactions and highlights the importance of the AX component as a new and effective working site to improved photovoltaic devices with high quality and phase purity. NREL (2-J) Varian NREL 32.9% Japan Energy NREL (3-J) Sharp (3-J) Sharp (3-J) NREL Spectrolab (3-J) 39.5% NREL (6-J) Boeing- Spectrolab (5-J) NREL/ Spectrolab (3-J) Spectrolab (3-J) Spectrolab (3-J) Boeing- Spectrolab (3-J) Boeing- Spectrolab (3-J) Boeing- Spectrolab (3-J) Boeing-Spectrolab (3-J, 240x) Boeing-Spectrolab (3-J,179x) NREL (3-J) NREL (3-J) NREL (3-J, 325.7x) FhG-ISE (3-J, 454x) SpireSemicon (3-J, 406x) SolarJunc (3-J, 418x) SolarJunc (3-J, 942x) Sharp (3-J, 302x) Spectrolab (3-J, 299x) Boeing- Spectrolab (3-J, 364x) 47.6% Varian (2-J) No. Carolina State U. (2-J) Spire (2-J) NREL (2-J) NREL (4-J) FhG-ISE (4-J, 665x) NREL (6-J,143x) FhG-ISE/ Soitec (4-J) 
 III-V Multijunction Cells Recently, metal halide perovskites (ABX 3 ) have emerged as promising materials for various applications, especially photovoltaics. The PCE of PSCs has rapidly increased to 26.1% (ref. 6). However, maintaining their performance during long-term operation is still challenging, especially in accelerated ageing  7  , owing to the complex chemical landscape with respect to composition and phase in perovskites  1, 2, 8  . The resultant films present multiscale imperfections, such as point defects, component heterogeneity, undesirable residues, multiscale secondary phases and so on  [3] [4] [5]  . These lead to less optimal optical bandgap, adverse optoelectronic response and even material degradation  [9] [10] [11]  . Moreover, even in high-quality FAPbI 3 films for state-of-art devices, detrimental nanoscale phase impurities are discovered  [12] [13] [14] [15]  . Thus, it is urgently needed to further improve the quality of perovskite materials by minimizing multiscale impurities, especially nanoscale phase impurity, which receives limited attention. The formation of perovskite film by means of the solution process is quick with vigorous reaction and diffusion, which often involves intermediate phases  16  . Modulating precursor chemistry enables complete transformation to photoactive α phase or suppression of photoinactive δ intermediate phases. The formation of perovskite could be regarded as the reaction between AX and BX 2 . In this regard, electron donors such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)  16  , N-methylpyrrolidone  17  , Cl -(ref. 18), formate (Fa -)  19  and thiocyanate (SCN -)  20  are intensively investigated, which coordinate with electron-accepting metal cation at the B site (Pb 2+ and Sn 2+ ) to retard nucleation and influence crystal growth substantially  19  , which we refer to as the BX 2 retardants. However, commonly used electron donors such as DMSO or methylammonium chloride (MACl) only allows partial elimination of nanoscale δ-phase impurities, whereas stronger electron donors can bring in secondary phases and residuals owing to relatively strong interaction but mild crystal-growth conditions  19, 21  . We proposed that, as well as merely interacting with BX 2 by using electron-donating molecules, interacting with electron-donating AX synergically by using a new type of retardants (which we refer to as the AX retardants) with electron-accepting capability may give rise to the further elaborate regulation of perovskite fabrication (as shown in Fig.  1a ). However, so far, no attempts have succeeded in achieving state-of-art PSCs with the AX component as a working site for film-growth regulation. Fortunately, we find that anion-π interaction could be used as such AX retardants.  
 Article The anion-π interaction between FAI and HFB Anion-π interactions generally occur between an electron-deficient (π-acidic) aromatic system and an anion, and the intensity mainly relies on electrostatic forces and anion-induced polarization  22  . Earlier studies showed that the anion-π interaction between fullerene derivatives in perovskite induces n-doping of fullerene derivatives and cause passivation of defects  23, 24  . With six strong electron-withdrawing fluorine atoms on the arene, HFB has an overwhelming electron deficiency with large positive quadrupole moment up to +9.5 B, which leads to stronger anion-π interaction  25  . Accordingly, the anion-π bond strength was found to be 0.53 eV (51 kJ mol -1 ) between HFB and iodide  26  , which was on the same order of magnitude as DMSO-PbI 2 coordination  27  . In the coordination process, BX 2 functions as an acceptor and retardants serve as donors; conversely, in the anion-π interaction, AX acts as a donor and HFB serves as an acceptor. Therefore, both AX and BX 2 components could interact with their retardants, realizing dual-site regulation of perovskite growth. We use FAPbI 3 as the platform to study the anion-π interaction during film growth. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations (Fig.  1a ) showed that the iodine anion interacted favourably with HFB with overlapping electron clouds, wherein the distance between iodine and Neither HFB nor FAI/isopropyl alcohol (IPA) solution showed fluorescence at 500-560 nm (Fig.  1b ). However, when HFB was introduced to the FAI/IPA solution, a new emission peak appeared at 545 nm, suggesting that a complex is probably formed. Spectrometric titration results show that the strongest emission appears when the molar ratio [HFB]/([HFB] + [FAI]) equals 0.2, implying the complex formation between 4FAI and 1HFB. We further performed ultravioletvisible (UV-vis) absorption measurement (Fig.  1c ). FAI and HFB showed absorption edges at 260 nm and 280 nm, respectively, but the HFB and FAI mixture showed a much redshifted absorption edge to 325 nm, which indicated the charge transfer between iodide and HFB. Also, in Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR; Extended Data Fig.  1a ), the skeletal vibration of FA + at 1,703 cm -1 and stretching vibration of -NH 2 in FA + at 3,355 cm -1 both shifted to higher wavenumber with the addition of HFB (1,722 cm -1 and 3,400 cm -1 , respectively). This is probably because the N-H⋯I hydrogen bond between FA+ and I-was weakened by HFB. It was also confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) (Extended Data Fig.  1b ), in which the FAI showed a prominent shift to higher field (Δδ = -0.3 ppm) after HFB addition. The formation of FAI-HFB complex reduces the chemical potential of FAI, as tested by cyclic voltammetry measurement in Extended Data Fig.  1c . We then studied how HFB affects the reaction between FAI and PbI 2 . As shown in Fig.  1d , bare PbI 2 in dimethylformamide (DMF) showed an absorption peak at 285 nm related to PbI + (DMF)  28  . When adding FAI to PbI 2 solution, absorption peaks related to PbI 2 (DMF) and PbI 3 -(DMF) located at 325 nm and 370 nm appeared. However, on introducing HFB, the PbI 3 -(DMF) peak disappeared and the PbI 2 (DMF) peak decreased considerably. This indicated that the interaction between iodine and lead could be substantially inhibited with HFB. DFT calculations were taken among possible reactions in the FAI⋯HFB⋯PbI 2 three-component system, as shown below 
 FAI + HFB → FA + [I HFB] (1) + - ⋯ FAI + PbI → FA + [PbI ] (2) 2 + 3 -  ⋯ [PbI ] + HFB → [PbI HFB] (3) q z (nm -1 ) q z (nm -1 ) Intensity (a.u.)  
 Article in which reaction 1 refers to the interaction between FAI and HFB and reaction 2 refers to the interaction between FAI and PbI 2 . The Gibbs energy of reaction 1 (-89.7 kcal mol -1 ) is markedly lower than that of reaction 2 (-53.1 kcal mol -1 ), indicating that FAI has a stronger interaction with HFB rather than PbI 2 . Although HFB can also interact with the product of reaction 2 ([PbI 3 ] -), the Gibbs energy of this reaction (reaction 3) is too small (-2.51 kcal mol -1 ) to cancel out the energy difference between reaction 1 and reaction 2. The DFT calculations were performed in gas phase (Fig.  1e ) and the implicit solvent model (Extended Data Fig.  2 ), yielding consistent results. Thus, HFB could react with FAI to form [FAI⋯HFB] and retard the reaction between FAI and PbI 2 . We quantitatively study this retarding effect. The PbI 2 films immersed in FAI/IPA showed fast initial weight gain and soon reached saturation, as tested by quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D; Fig.  1f , upper panel), which is possibly because of the formation of δ-FAPbI 3 that impeded further diffusion of FAI  29  . By contrast, PbI 2 in FAI-HFB/IPA solution showed much less weight gain at the beginning but no apparent saturation. Also, 3.6% of FAI was consumed in the FAI/ IPA solution, whereas only 1.2% of FAI was consumed in the FAI-HFB/ IPA solution for the first 30 s, which was measured using an inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometer (Fig.  1f , lower panel). These results show that the reaction rate between FAI and PbI 2 could be effectively retarded by HFB. As well as FAI, the UV-vis results showed that anion-π-interactioninduced polarization appears in other I --based compounds (MAI and CsI) regardless of the cation and in different anions, such as Br -, and even pseudohalogen anion SCN -(Extended Data Fig.  3 ). 
 Effect of HFB on perovskite film growth In situ UV-vis absorption measurement was implemented to investigate the FAPbI 3 formation process. We refer to the perovskite samples fabricated without and with HFB as the 'control' samples and the 'HFB' samples, respectively. Figure  2a ,b shows the differential of in situ absorption of PbI 2 •DMSO films immersed in (FAI + MACl)/IPA solution and (FAI + MACl)/(IPA + HFB) solution for 1 h, respectively. The control sample exhibited an absorption threshold at 470 nm, with the maximum differential at 450 nm (Fig.  2a, c ) corresponding to δ-FAPbI 3 , which is absent in the HFB sample (Fig.  2b, c ). The absorption of the control sample was almost unchanged after the initial 10 min, although the transformation to perovskite phase in the HFB sample was slow but continuous (Supplementary Fig.  1 ), which suggests complete transformation from PbI 2 •DMSO to perovskites. The in situ grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) test was used to evaluate the crystallization kinetics. As shown in Fig.  2d-g , the broad scattering peak at q ≈ 15 nm -1 probably originated from solvent (IPA or mixed IPA and HFB) and the sharp diffraction peaks at q = 10.2 nm -1 and 8.6 nm -1 represent the α-phase perovskite and 6H phase of δ-FAPbI 3 , respectively. The solvent peak took 30 s and 12 s for the HFB and control samples, respectively, to lose half of their initial intensity. Thermal gravimetric analysis also implies more solvent residue in HFB perovskite precursor films below 70 °C (Supplementary Fig.  2 ). As the volatilization rate of HFB was much faster than that of IPA at room temperature (Supplementary Videos 1 and 2), the solvent residue more likely originates from the strong interaction between HFB and FAI. In the control sample, δ-FAPbI 3 and α-phase perovskite was observed immediately after organic salts were deposited (Fig.  2h ). The α-phase peak was located at 10.2 nm -1 , higher than the peak at 9.8 nm -1 for α-FAPbI 3 (ref. 30), which was attributed to the incorporation of MACl into the α-FAPbI 3 lattice  18  . Surprisingly, in the HFB sample, the δ-FAPbI 3 and α phase was absent in the first 30 s and 18 s. Different from the absorption results, some δ-FAPbI 3 still appeared in the HFB sample after 30 s, which might be associated with the moisture-induced degradation, along with solvent evaporation  29  . These results indicate that the addition of HFB could retard the reaction between FAI and PbI 2 at ) q (nm -1 ) q r (nm room temperature, which consequently suppressed the formation of δ-FAPbI 3 or other crystalline intermediate phase. On heating, HFB escapes from the film, which allows more direct formation of crystalline α-FAPbI 3 from wet film with much reduced side reaction. This dual-site regulation is different from previous methods that suppress δ-FAPbI 3 by forming another stable intermediate phase or accelerate sufficient transformation from δ-FAPbI 3 to α-FAPbI 3 (refs. 16,18,20). 
 Effect of HFB on final perovskite films X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) on the final HFB films (Supplementary Fig.  3 ) shows negligible F1s signal, indicating that HFB has escaped from the perovskite films completely after annealing. Thus, the changes of the final films probably originated from the crystallization process. The HFB sample showed narrower diffraction peaks for α-FAPbI 3 , as measured by X-ray diffraction (XRD) (Supplementary Fig.  4 ) and GIWAXS (Fig.  3a ,b and Supplementary Fig.  5 ). Besides, an increase in grain size from about 200 nm to more than 1 μm by the addition of HFB is clearly observed in the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Fig.  3c, d ). Although there are no obvious diffraction signals corresponding to crystalline δ-FAPbI 3 observed in the control and HFB films, it is documented that nanoscale δ-FAPbI 3 domains (for example, nuclei) cannot be accurately detected by XRD, owing to the lack of long-range order  13, 15  . Accordingly, low-temperature absorption of the control sample showed oscillatory features located around 700 nm at 80 K (Fig.  3e ), implying the existence of nanoscale impurities  13  . On HFB addition, the oscillatory features disappeared. These structural  
 Article differences were further confirmed using extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurement. As shown in Fig.  3f , a new peak was found at 3.92 Å in R space for the control sample, which is consistent with the distance between the adjacent lead atoms in the face-sharing PbI 6 octahedral structure  31  . Given that the same peak at 3.92 Å in R space was discovered in δ-FAPbI 3 single crystals, we consider that this peak originated from the δ-FAPbI 3 structure. Notably, such a peak was absent in the HFB sample. This confirms that nanoscale impurity exists in the FAPbI 3 perovskite fabricated from conventional precursors (FAPbI 3 + MACl) and could be inhibited by the addition of HFB. In transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements, δ-FAPbI 3 was not found in the entire region (Supplementary Fig.  6 ), which visually illustrates the phase purity of the HFB sample. A typical α-FAPbI 3 lattice was clearly seen in the enlarged image (Fig.  3g ). However, the control sample was found to contain some diffraction pattern related to the δ-FAPbI 3 region (Supplementary Fig.  7 ). Furthermore, the bandgaps of the HFB and control samples were estimated to be 1.52 and 1.54 eV, respectively, using a Tauc plot (Supplementary Fig.  8 ). The absorption threshold for the HFB sample reached more than 825 nm with increased absorbance. This probably originated from the reduced MA cation residue from MACl additives, as revealed by  1  H NMR and secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) mapping (Supplementary Figs.  9  and 10 ). The HFB sample also showed 2.5 times higher photoluminescence (PL) intensity and longer carrier lifetimes (2.1 μs) than control films (1.3 μs), which suggests lower defect density (Supplementary Figs.  11  and 12 ). A similar trend was also found for other widely adopted perovskite components with HFB, indicating that HFB can regulate the formation process of various perovskites, as shown in Supplementary Figs.  13 14 15 . 
 Article 
 Methods 
 Materials SnO 2 colloid precursor (tin(IV) oxide, 15% in H 2 O colloidal dispersion), hydroiodic acid (HI, 57 wt% in water) and HFB was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Tin(II) chloride dihydrate (99.995%), thioglycolic acid, PbI 2 (99.999%), CsI (99.9%), N,N-dimethylformamide (99.9%), DMSO (99.5%), isopropanol (99.5%), chlorobenzene (99.8%), 4-tert-butylpyridine (98%) and acetonitrile (99.8%) was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Spiro-OMeTAD (99.8%), tris(2-(1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-4-tert-butylpyridine)cobalt(III)tris(bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide) salt (FK209), poly[bis(4-phenyl)(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA) was purchased from Xi'an Polymer Light Technology in China. Hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37 wt% in water) and methylamine water solution was purchased from Beijing Tongguang Fine Chemical Company. Formamidine acetate was purchased from MACKLIN. FTO substrate was purchased from Yingkou OPV Tech New Energy Co., Ltd. 
 Materials synthesis MACl and FAI were synthesized using the methods reported previously. The details are as follows: 16 ml methylamine water solution (0.1 mol) or 8.8 g formamidine acetate (0.1 mol) was added to a 100-ml three-neck flask immersed in a water/ice bath. A certain amount (0.1 mol) of HX acid was slowly dropped into the bottle with continuous stirring. The mixture was refluxed for 2 h under a N 2 atmosphere. Subsequently, the solution was concentrated to a dry solid by using rotary evaporation at 80 °C. This crude product was redissolved into 20 ml ethanol, then 100 μl diethyl ether was slowly dropped along the bottle wall and a white product deposited. This recrystallization was repeated three times and the obtained precipitate was dried in a vacuum oven for 10 h at 40 °C. The final products were sealed in a N 2 -filled glovebox for future use. 
 Solar cell device fabrication The FTO or ITO substrate was cleaned with ultrapure water, acetone, ethanol and isopropanol successively. For highly efficient PSCs, SnO 2 was deposited in a chemical bath, similar to a previous report  32  , and annealed at 150 °C for 60 min in air. For the stability test, a SnO 2 nanocrystal solution was spin-coated on the ITO substrate at 4,000 r.p.m. for 30 s to form a 50-nm-thick film, which was then annealed at 150 °C for 60 min in air. The perovskite film was fabricated by a two-step solution process: the PbI 2 (1.5 M, dissolved in DMF/DMSO (9:1, v/v)) was spin-coated on SnO 2 at 1,500 r.p.m. for 30 s. Organic cation solution (FAI 0.55 M; MACl 0.12 M) was spin-coated at 2,100 r.p.m. for 30 s and then annealed at 170 °C for 10 min in a dehumidified box (RH < 30%). The organic cation was dissolved in isopropanol for reference perovskite or a mixture of isopropanol/HFB (945:55, 890:110, 835:165 and 780:220, v/v for 1HFB, 2HFB, 3HFB and 4HFB, as optimized in Supplementary Fig.  16 ) for HFB-treated perovskite. Phenylethanamine salt (20 mM) was spin-coated onto the perovskite films at 3,000 r.p.m. for 30 s. Then the HTM solution, in which a spiro-OMeTAD/ chlorobenzene (72.3 mg ml -1 ) solution was used with the addition of 35 μl Li-TFSI/acetonitrile (260 mg ml -1 ) and 30 μl 4-tert-butylpyridine, was deposited by spin-coating at 3,500 r.p.m. for 30 s. The device was finished by thermal evaporation of Au (80 nm) under vacuum. For the operational stability test inside the glovebox, a further 7 μl FK209 (0.55 M in acetonitrile) and 7 mg PTAA was added to 1 ml of the HTM solution to prevent possible dedope and deposited at 2,000 r.p.m. For the thermal stability test, 15 mg PTAA with the addition of 7.5 μl Li-TFSI/ acetonitrile (180 mg ml -1 ) and 10 μl 4-tert-butylpyridine was deposited by spin-coating at 3,000 r.p.m. for 30 s. 
 Basic material characterization The morphology of perovskite films was measured using a cold field-emission scanning electron microscope (Hitachi S-4800). The XRD patterns were collected using a PANalytical X'Pert Pro X-ray powder diffractometer with Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.54050 Å). PL was measured by a FLS980 fluorescence spectrometer (Edinburgh Instruments Ltd.) with an excitation at 450-470 nm. Time-resolved PL was measured by the FLS980 fluorescence spectrometer with excitation wavelength at 470 nm. The UV-vis absorption spectra were obtained using an UV-vis diffuse reflectance spectrophotometer (Hitachi UH4150). In situ UV-vis absorption spectra were tested by reacting the as-prepared PbI 2 films and organic cation solutions in a Quartz Flow-Through Semi-Micro Cuvette with a 2-mm slit. XPS measurements were carried out on an XPS AXIS Ultra DLD (Kratos Analytical). The current density-voltage characteristics of the perovskite devices were obtained using a Keithley 2420 Source Measure Unit under AM 1.5 G illumination at 1,000 W m -2 with a Newport Thermal Oriel 91192 solar simulator. The shading mask and one of our best devices were sent to the NIM for certification. The active area was defined as 0.0831 cm 2 . EQEs were measured by an Enlitech EQE measurement system. PL mapping was measured by a laser scanning confocal microscope (Enlitech, SPCM-1000) equipped with a 470-nm pulse laser and galvo-based scanner in air, in which the signal of area 1,225 (35 × 35) μm 2 was collected. Thermal gravimetric analysis was obtained from a SDT Q600 thermogravimetric analyser (TA Instruments) with a ramping at 30 °C min -1 from 20 °C to 180 °C. For sample preparation, 100 μl of different organic cation solutions was spin-coated onto the as-prepared PbI 2 films for 10 s at 20 °C. Then the whole films were scraped from the substrate and transferred to the measurement furnaces immediately. FTIR was measured by a Spectrum Spotlight 200 FTIR microscope. Time-of-flight SIMS measurement was performed using a PHI nanoTOF II instrument (ULVAC-PHI, Inc.). A 30-keV Bi + pulsed primary ion beam was used for the analysis. TEM and the electron diffraction test were taken in an aberration-corrected JEOL JEM-ARM300F microscope at 300 KV. The precursor used for preparing the TEM sample was one-fifth of the concentration used for devices, which is suitable for TEM measurement. The structure optimization and electrostatic potential of HFB-FAI was estimated by the DFT calculation using the Gaussian 16 software package  33  . To carefully consider the weak intermolecular interaction of the complex, the DFT calculations were carried out with the DFT functional ωB9X-D (ref. 34) and basis set Def2TZVP. The electrostatic surface potential of the complex was generated with GaussView software. Films for the phase stability test were aged in a box with a humidifier. The operational stability was tested under an AM 1.5 G solar system (WAVELABS SINUS-70), in which the devices were loaded into an electrochemical workstation (CHI1000C, CH Instruments) and the loading voltage was fixed at MPP manually. During the operational stability test, the device temperature is measured to be 50 ± 5 °C. 
 QCM-D monitoring QCM-D measurements were performed in the QSense Analyzer (Biolin Scientific). PbI 2 was deposited on quartz sensors coated with silicon dioxide using the same method as the devices. FAI/IPA or FAI/HFB + IPA solutions were pumped into a chamber continuously and reacted with PbI 2 . Changes in the frequency of the third, fifth, seventh and ninth overtones (n = 3, 5, 7, 9) are used to fit mass change in the Kelvin-Voigt model. 
 ICP-AES test The inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) test was taken in the Prodigy7 ICP-OES (Teledyne Leeman Labs). In our experiment, PbI 2 films were coated on a glass slide by doctor blade coating, which was placed vertically and reacted with 70 ml FAI/IPA or FAI/HFB + IPA solutions (2 mg ml -1 for FAI) in a glass container. The container vial was sealed to prevent evaporation of the solvent so that the mass of FAI could not be overestimated owing to solvent evaporation. After a certain reaction time as reported in the manuscript (15 s, 30 s, 60 s, 120 s, 1,200 s, 3,600 s), the glass slide with PbI 2 film was removed immediately from the reaction container and the FAI solution was stirred evenly. Then the solution was extracted and diluted (1:39 v/v) in water before sending to test. An extra 50 mg ml -1 of sodium hypophosphite was added to prevent oxidation and evaporation of iodine. ) is still lower than that of reaction 2 (6.00 kcal mol -1 ) in solvent. Notably, reaction 3 (ΔG = -3.97 kcal mol -1 ) became more favourable in solvent, which is consistent with the UV-vis absorption spectra of the three-component system (Fig.  1d ). This was probably because of the coordination of solvent molecules in the implicit solvent model. But the energy of reaction 3 in solvent is still not enough to cancel out the energy difference between reaction 1 and reaction 2. Therefore, DFT calculations in gas phase as well as in the implicit solvent model (solvent = DMF) yield consistent results, that HFB reacts with FAI to form [FAI⋯HFB] and retards the reaction between FAI and PbI 2 . 
 Extended Data 
 Article Extended Data Fig.  3  | Anion-π interaction between the AX component of perovskite and HFB. UV-vis absorption spectra for HFB, various salts with different cations and anions FAI (a), MAI (b), CsI (c), MACl (d), MABr (e), MASCN (f) and their mixture. Similar redshift about the absorption edge from 280 nm to more than 320 nm was found after FAI, MAI or CsI solution mixing with HFB, indicating that this polarization appeared regardless of the cation species  35  . Besides, the absorption edge of HFB at 280 nm shifted to 285 nm and 300 nm after mixing with Br -and SCN -, respectively. These evidences implied that such polarization also existed between HFB and bromide or even SCN -. It should be noted that there is no redshift observed when HFB is mixed with chloride, indicative of no polarization, which is probably because of the small radius of chlorine. However, because anion-π interactions also consisted of the contribution from electrostatic force, the strong electrostatic force between Cl -and HFB also leads to anion-π interactions, as reported previously  36  . These results indicate that the anion-π interaction is widely present between HFB and various types of AX in perovskite. ( 2 - 2 terminal, monolithic) LM = lattice matched MM = metamorphic IMM = inverted, metamorphic Two-, three-, and four-junction (concentrator) Three-junction or more (non-concentrator) Two-junction (non-concentrator) Anion-π interactions suppress phase impurities in FAPbI 3 solar cells Zijian Huang 1 , Yang Bai 2 , Xudan Huang 3 , Jiatong Li 1 , Yuetong Wu 4 , Yihua Chen 2 , Kailin Li 1 , Xiuxiu Niu 2 , Nengxu Li 1 , Guilin Liu 5 , Yu Zhang 1 , Huachao Zai 1 , Qi Chen 2 , Ting Lei 1 , Lifen Wang 3 & Huanping Zhou 1,6 ✉ 
 1 Beijing 1 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06637Key Laboratory for Theory and Technology of Advanced Battery Materials, Key Laboratory of Polymer Chemistry and Physics of Ministry of Education, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of China. 2 Experimental Centre for Advanced Materials, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, People's Republic of China. 3 Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. 4 Beijing Key Laboratory for Theory and Technology of Advanced Battery Materials, Key Laboratory of Polymer Chemistry and Physics of Ministry of Education, College of Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of China. 5 School of Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China. 6 Institute of Carbon Neutrality, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of China. ✉ e-mail: happy_zhou@pku.edu.cn 
 Fig. 1 | 1 Fig. 1 | Schematic illustration and experimental investigation of anion-π interactions. a, Schematic illustration of using extra anion-π interactions as the AX retardant in perovskite processing. The colour bar ranges from -37.7 to 37.7 kcal mol -1 . b, PL spectra of FAI, HFB and mixture of FAI and HFB. The inset shows fluorescence titration of the mixture. c, UV-vis absorption spectra of FAI, HFB and mixture of FAI and HFB. d, UV-vis absorption spectra of PbI 2 , FAI⋯PbI 2 mixture and FAI⋯PbI 2 ⋯HFB mixture. e, Molecular structures and corresponding Gaussian-calculated electrostatic potentials (φ) of possible 
 Fig. 2 | 2 Fig. 2 | Influence of anion-π interactions on film formation. a,b, Differential of UV-vis absorption spectra evolution with time for lead iodide films immersed in FAI dissolved in IPA (a) or IPA + HFB (b). c, UV-vis absorption spectra of PbI 2 films immersed in FAI (IPA) or FAI (IPA + HFB) for 1 h. The inset shows amplifiedabsorption between 440 nm and 480 nm. d,e, Time-resolved GIWAXS intensity maps versus q and reaction time for control (d) and HFB (e). f,g, The corresponding GIWAXS intensity profiles for control (f) and HFB (g). h, The time evolutions of the peak index of solvent, δ-FAPbI 3 and perovskite phases. a.u., arbitrary units. 
 Fig. 3 | 3 Fig. 3 | Influence of anion-π interactions on final FAPbI 3 perovskite films. a,b, GIWAXS profiles of the (a) and HFB (b) perovskite films. c,d, Top-view SEM image of the control (c) and HFB (d) perovskite films. Scale bars, 5 μm. e, UV-vis absorption of control and HFB perovskite films at room temperature (R.T.) and 80 K (low-temperature UV-vis absorption). f, EXAFS of control and HFB perovskite films and δ-FAPbI 3 crystal. g, TEM of HFB perovskite on a smaller scale. Scale bar, 2 nm. 
 Fig. 4 | 4 Fig. 4 | Effect of anion-π interactions on PCE and stability of PSCs. a, Reverse and forward J-V scan of FAPbI 3 -based solar cell with HFB. b, Statistical analysis of control and HFB PSCs. c, EQE and EQE EL of control and HFB PSCs. d, J-V scan of a larger device (1.003 cm 2 ) with HFB. e,f, Peak position in PL mapping of control (e) and HFB (f) perovskite films. g, Operational stability of control and HFB PSCs. h, Thermal stability of control and HFB PSCs. 
 Fig. 1 | 1 Interaction between FAI and HFB. a, FTIR spectra of FAI, HFB or mixed FAI and HFB. b,1  H NMR of FAI and FAI with HFB in DMSO-d 6 . c, C-V measurement of iodine ion activity of FAI or FAI with HFB. The electrode oxidation potential E I -of FAI (0.2 mg ml -1 ) in IPA at 293 K is +0.245 V, which dropped to +0.197 V of FAI with the addition of HFB (E ) I --HFB . The activity of iodide without (γ ) I -and with (γ ) I --HFB HFB could be compared using the Nernst equation ratio is determined to be 2.2, indicating the substantially reduced activity of iodide ions. The decrease in the ion activity ultimately leads to a decrease in the chemical potential of FAI, which retards the reaction between FAI and PbI 2 .Extended DataFig. 2 | DFT calculations for the FAI⋯HFB⋯PbI 2 threecomponent system. DFT-calculated Gibbs energy of three reactions in gas phase (a) and the implicit solvent model (solvent = DMF) (b). According to the implicit solvent model, we observed that the Gibbs energy of reaction 1 (-3.19 kcal mol -1