Paper #: 41
Tuning Structural Isomers of Phenylenediammonium to Afford Efficient and Stable Perovskite Solar Cells and Modules
Chemicals required for the synthesis were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and TCI Europe and used as received without additional purification. 1 H NMR spectra were recorded at 400 MHz on a Bruker Avance III spectrometer with a 5 mm double resonance broad band BBO z-gradient room temperature probe, 13 C NMR spectra were collected using the same instrument at 101 MHz. The chemical shifts, expressed in ppm, were relative to tetramethylsilane (TMS). All the NMR experiments were performed at 25 °C. Reactions were monitored by thin-layer chromatography on ALUGRAM SIL G/UV254 plates and developed with UV light. Silica gel (grade 9385, 230-400 mesh, 60 Å, Aldrich) was used for column chromatography. Elemental analysis was performed with an Exeter Analytical CE-440 elemental analyser, Model 440 C/H/N/. MS were recorded on Waters SQ Detector 2 Spectrometer using electrospray ionization (ESI) technique. Lead iodide (PbI2, 99.99%), lead bromide (PbBr2, 98%), and phenethylammonium iodide (PEAI, >98.0%) were purchased from Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., LTD. Methylammonium iodide (MAI, >99.5%), cesium iodide (CsI, >99.9%), methylammonium chloride (MACl, >99.5%), formamidinium iodide (FAI, >99.5%) and Spiro-MeOTAD (>99.0%) were purchased from the Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp. All reagents were used as received without further purification. Synthetic route Will you marry me? for PDEAI2 cations is shown in Supplementary Figure  1 . 
 2,2'-(1,4-phenylene)diacetonitrile (1) NaCN (1.85 g, 37.77 mmol) and 1,4-bis(bromomethyl)benzene (5.00 g, 18.94 mmol) were dissolved in EtOH (10 mL) and distilled H2O (5 mL) and refluxed for 7 hours. After cooling to RT reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3 x 100 mL), dried over anhydrous Na2SO4, filtered and solvent evaporated in vacuo. The product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using 20-40% acetone in hexane. Yield 2.41 g (81%). 1
extracted with EtOAc and dried over Na2SO4 then distilled. The product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using 10% acetone in hexane. Yield 1.70 g (57%).  1  H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) δ 7.50 -7.37 (m, 4H), 3.78 (s, 4H).  13  C NMR (101 MHz, CDCl3) δ 130. 23  
 1,4-phenylenediethylamine (4) 1 (1.00 g, 6.40 mmol) was dissolved in THF (50 mL) and a solution of 1 M borane tetrahydrofuran complex (45 mL, 542.69 mmol) was added dropwise under argon atmosphere and refluxed for 24 hours. The solution was cooled down in an ice bath and THF:H2O (v:v; 1:1) (50 mL) was added dropwise leading to a white precipitate. The mixture was distilled to remove THF and then EtOH (100 mL) and concentrated H2SO4 (1 mL) were added. The mixture was refluxed for 30 min. The solvents were removed in vacuo, 1 M NaOH (100 mL) solution was added to neutralize the acid. The mixture was extracted with CHCl3 (3 x 50 mL), dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and evaporated, leading to a white solid. The crude was used for the next step without further purification. Yield 1.05 g (99%). C10H16N2[M + ] exact mass = 164.13, MS (ESI) = 164.50. 
 1,3-phenylenediethylamine (5) To a solution of 2 (1.10 g, 7.04 mmol) in THF (50 mL), 1 M borane tetrahydrofuran complex solution (45 mL, 542.69 mmol) was added dropwise under argon atmosphere and refluxed for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled down to RT and placed in an ice bath. THF:H2O (v:v; 1:1) (50 mL) was added dropwise to neutralize the complex, leading to a white precipitate. The mixture was distilled to remove THF and EtOH (100 mL) and concentrated H2SO4 (1 mL) were added. The mixture was refluxed for 30 min. The solvents were removed in vacuo, 1 M NaOH (100 mL) solution was added to neutralize the acid. The mixture was extracted with CHCl3, dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and distilled, leading to a white solid. The crude was used for the next step without further purification. Yield 1.15 g (99%). C10H16N2[M + ] exact mass = 164. 13, MS (ESI) = 164.47. 
 1,2-phenylenediethylamine (6) To a solution of 3 (0.85 g, 5.44 mmol) in THF (50 mL), 1 M borane solution in THF (45 mL) was added dropwise under argon atmosphere and the mixture was refluxed for 24 hours. The solution was cooled down in an ice bath and THF:H2O (v:v; 1:1) (50 mL) was added leading to a white precipitate. The mixture was distilled to remove THF and then EtOH (100 mL) and concentrated H2SO4 (1 mL) were added. The mixture was refluxed for 30 min. The solvents were removed in vacuo, 1 M NaOH (100 mL) solution was added to neutralize the acid. The mixture was extracted with CHCl3, dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and distilled, leading to a white solid. The crude was used for the next step without further purification. Yield 0.62 g (69%). C10H16N2[M + ] exact mass = 164. 13, MS (ESI) = 164.24. 
 1,4-(phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (p-PDEAI2) 4 (1.20 g, 7.30 mmol) was dissolved in CH3OH (60 mL) and reaction flask was placed in an ice bath. HI (57 %, 12 mL) was added dropwise under argon atmosphere. The flask was covered with foil to avoid light exposure and stirred overnight at RT. Reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the obtained crude was dissolved in methanol and precipitated into 20-fold excess of Et2O. The product was filtered, washed with Et2O and dried to yield 2.39 g of yellowish solid (77%).  1  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) δ 7.74 (s, 6H), 7.23 (s, 4H), 3.08 -3.00 (t, J = 9.6 Hz, 4H), 2.85 -2.81 (t, J = 9.9, 6.3 Hz, 4H).  13  C NMR (101 MHz, DMSO) δ 135.00, 128. 26, 38.23, 31.98  
 1,3-(phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (m-PDEAI2 ) 5 (1.00 g, 6.08 mmol) was dissolved in CH3OH (50 mL) under argon atmosphere. HI (57 %, 10 mL) was added dropwise while stirring the mixture in an ice bath. The flask was covered with foil to avoid light exposure and left to stir for 24 hours. Then the reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the obtained crude was dissolved in methanol and precipitated into 20-fold excess of Et2O. Precipitate was filtered, washed with Et2O and dried to obtain the product as yellowish solid. Yield 0.62 g (23%).  1  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) δ 7.75 (s, 6H), 7.32 (t, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.16 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 3H), 3.06 (dd, J = 9.5, 6.4 Hz, 4H), 2.85 (dd, J = 9.7, 6.3 Hz, 4H).  13    
 1,2-(phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (o-PDEAI2) 6 (0.50 g, 3.04 mmol) was dissolved in CH3OH (25 mL) and HI (57 %, 5 mL) was added dropwise under argon atmosphere while stirring the mixture in an ice bath. The flask was covered with foil to avoid light exposure and left to stir for 24 hours. Reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the obtained crude dissolved in methanol and precipitated into 20-fold excess of Et2O. Precipitate was filtered, washed with Et2O and dried to obtain the product as yellowish solid. Yield 1.00 g (78%).  1  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) δ 7.78 (s, 6H), 7.26 (s, 4H), 3.08 -2.97 (m, 4H), 2.97 -2.84 (m, 4H).  13  C NMR (101 MHz, DMSO) δ 135.50, 129.61, 129. 40, 127.27, 45.39, 40.20, 38.89, 29.  
 Supplementary Computational Details First-principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) are carried out as implemented in the PWSCF Quantum-Espresso package  1  . Geometry optimization, including dispersion correction  2  , was performed using GGA-PBE  3  level of theory and the electrons-ions interactions were described by ultrasoft pseudo-potentials with electrons from I 5s, 5p; N, C 2s, 2p; H 1s; Pb, 6s, 6p, 5d; shells explicitly included in calculations. Plane wave basis set cutoffs for the smooth part of the wave functions and the augmented density were 50 and 400 Ry, respectively. Both ions and volume were relaxed during the optimization of the bulk 2D perovskites. Formation energies (Eformation) of the bulk 2D perovskites were calculated using the following formula: Eformation = Etotal -EPb2+ -EI--Ecationic-molecule, where Etotal, EPb2+, EIand Ecationic-molecule are the total energy of the bulk 2D perovskite, Pb 2+ cation, isolated I -anion and isolated cationic molecule, respectively with the corresponding numbers of ions involves for the bulk 2D perovskites of four formula units. EPb2+ was calculated from the energy of the bulk PbI2 in its P3m1 crystal phase. Cationic molecules were optimized in 30×30×30 Å  3     
 REVIEWER COMMENTS Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): In this manuscript, the authors studied the energy barrier of 2D perovskite formation from ortho-, meta-and para-isomers of (phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (PDEAI2) that were designed for tailored defect passivation. Treatment with the most sterically hindered ortho-isomer not only prevents the formation of surficial 2D perovskite film, even at elevated temperatures, but also maximizes the passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects. The ensuing PSCs achieve an efficiency of 23.9% with long-term operational stability (over 1000 hours). And the authors also demonstrated that a high performance perovskite solar cells module with an active area of 26 cm2. Overall, the idea and results shown in this manuscript is good, while still have some issues should be addressed for further considerations: 1)For the theoretical modelling, the authors should consider the usually used PEAI for comparison. 2)The authors should clearly explain why the passivation effect of the organic salt is better than the 2D perovskite. 3)The authors claimed that the record efficiency (21.4%) for the module with the area of 26 cm2. The efficiency could be overestimated, for the results shown in Figure  5c , the Jsc is 2.71 mA/cm2, considering that a nine sub-cells connected, the overall equivalent short current density is 24.39 mA/cm2 (this is almost same as single cell current density), while the geometric fill factor (GFF) was calculated to be 90.2%, this means that the real current density will be 27 mA/cm2, this is impossible for the current perovskite material. I think the author has deduct the dead area while calculated the current density of the module, this is misleading. If the author insisted on the module efficiency is reliable, the authors should give a certification results from authorized party such as Newport, AIST, NREL or others. Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author): The authors report a study on organic halide salt passivation to reduce defects in perovskite solar cells (PSCs). The authors studied ortho-, meta-and para-isomers of (phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (PDEAI2) that were used to passivate perovskite defects. They find that the ortho-isomer could prevent the formation of surficial 2D perovskite film for the most sterically hinder, simultaneously maximizing the passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects. At last, the ortho-isomer-based PSCs obtained an efficiency of 23.9%, with high efficiency of 21.4% for the perovskite module (an active area of 26 cm2). 1. Many reports showed that a thin surficial 2D perovskite layer could improve the efficiency of the device, such as the author's work (Sci China Mater 2020, 63(1): 47-54). However, the authors said that the para-isomer that could form surficial 2D perovskite film decreased the device's performance from the PCE of 20.71% (control) to 20.30% (para-isomer). 2. In the assignment of the different phenyl-diethyl ammonium iodide (PDEAI2) solutions posttreatment on the final PSCs performance, only used the concentration of 2 mg mL-1, where there is no optimized process. 3. For surface energy band measurements, the authors said that the downshift suggests a more ptype surface after o-PDEAI2 treatment, which can improve hole extraction and cause bandbending for higher VOC values. However, from the UPS measurements (Supplementary Fig.  7 ), we could estimate the valence band of perovskite are -5.85 eV for control and ~6.15 eV for o-PDEAI2 treatment. Thus, this valence band of perovskite seems to impair the hole extraction rather than improve hole extraction as ref 40. (Energy Environ. Sci. 13, 1222-1230 (2020).) 4. In the cathodoluminescence (CL) intensity maps, o-PDEAI2-passivated perovskite film showed low luminescence (CL) intensity at 800 nm, while confocal PL microscopy mapping showed enhanced PL intensity. 5. In the assignment of the passivation effect on the hole extraction and carrier dynamics in the devices, the detailed experiment process of voltage-dependent transient PL measurement should be provided. Reviewer #3 (Remarks to the Author): Review "Tuning the structural isomers of phenylenediammonium cations to afford efficient and stable perovskite solar cells and modules" The manuscript explores approaches to passivate the surface of perovskite materials with 'large' ammonium cations, while at the same time preventing to form a 2D perovskite phases that introduces a substantial barrier for charge extraction. The authors show very convincingly that the use ortho-phenylenediethylammonium is a viable approach to reach this and characterize the different mutual placements of the ethylammonium groups in detail. The study is very thorough and show the effects on the device performance (both in small cells and in modules) very convincingly and is supported by measurements of carrier lifetimes by (voltage dependent) PL and surface potential by Kelvin probe measurements. I believe is an interesting contribution that should attract considerable attention in the perovskite field and hence should be published in Nature Commun. There are a few things that the authors may address to improve the manuscript: -The structures obtained from the calculations are interesting but it is very hard to make out in the figures provided what they actually look like. For the meta-compound the authors discuss binding of both ammonium groups, does this lead to distortion of the surface, leading to trapping? Does the ortho-compound also bond with both the ammonium groups? -I believe that some discussion on general design principles that can be derived from this study would be useful. Would the same effects be expected for any ammonium compound that does not have a tendency to form a 2D perovskite phase? What is the relevance of the presence of two alkyl ammoniums? Would a single one do the trick as long as it is attached to an organic group that does not allow 2D-phase formation? 
 Response Letter to Reviewers' Comments Response to Reviewer #1: Comments to the Author: In this manuscript, the authors studied the energy barrier of 2D perovskite formation from ortho-, meta-and para-isomers of (phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (PDEAI 2 ) that were designed for tailored defect passivation. Treatment with the most sterically hindered ortho-isomer not only prevents the formation of surficial 2D perovskite film, even at elevated temperatures, but also maximizes the passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects. The ensuing PSCs achieve an efficiency of 23.9% with long-term operational stability (over 1000 hours). And the authors also demonstrated that a high performance perovskite solar cells module with an active area of 26 cm 2 . Overall, the idea and results shown in this manuscript is good, while still have some issues should be addressed for further considerations: Reply: We appreciate the reviewer for his/her valuable suggestions and time to review our manuscript, which improves the quality of the article. According to the reviewer's suggestions, the manuscript has been revised, and its quality has been improved. (1) For the theoretical modelling, the authors should consider the usually used PEAI for comparison. Author reply: We thank the reviewer for the valuable comment. According to your suggestion, we have checked the formation energy of PEA2PbI4, which results in energetically more feasible (-7.71 eV) compared to o-PDEAI2 (-6.41 eV), m-PDEAI2 (-7.22 eV) and p-PDEAI2 (-7.19 eV). Our simulation results nicely match with experiments. We found that PEAI showed a much stronger ability to react with PbI2 to form 2D perovskite than the three isomeric cations, as verified by the XRD and PL results (Figure  1d , e and Supplementary Figure  1 ). We have further checked the passivation effect, following the similar protocol used for ortho-, meta-and para-isomers, of PEA cation by adsorbing on perovskite surface (see Figure  R1 ). The adsorption energy results in -9.28 and -9.90 eV for the ethyl ammonium and phenyl ring adsorption modes, respectively. The adsorption energy values are similar to the o-PDEAI2, which are -10.00 and -9.53 eV for the ethyl ammonium and phenyl ring adsorption modes, respectively. Thus, the adsorption energy suggests that PEAI has a similar passivation effect with o-PDEAI2, consistent with previous reports.1 The corresponding description and figure of the theoretical calculation for PEAI have been added to the revised manuscript and supplementary information. (2) The authors should clearly explain why the passivation effect of the organic salt is better than the 2D perovskite. Author reply: We would like to thank the reviewer for the precious question. The surface layers of 2D perovskite and organic halide salts can provide a chemical passivation effect for solution-processed 3D perovskite films on surficial defects, which contribute to interface carrier recombination and limit device performance well below their Shockley-Queisser efficiency potential.  2  For 2D perovskite passivation, organic spacer cations are used to react with excessive PbI 2 or to be exchanged with formamidinium (FA) and methylammonium (MA) cations to form a 2D perovskite capping layer, where a post-deposition thermal annealing step is usually involved to convert the film to the 2D phase. After covering the 3D perovskite, the 2D perovskite layer with upwardly shifting band edges may facilitate the hole extraction from the bottom 3D perovskite to hole transport layer (HTL) and suppresses the interfacial electron-hole recombination, reducing the energy loss inside 2D/3D perovskite solar cell (PSCs). However, several issues still challenge this strategy. (1) The 2D perovskite exhibits a high optical bandgap (≈ 2.4 eV) leading to a shorter spectral window for light absorption (300-500 nm) and typically has a much higher exciton binding energy (300-500 meV) than 3D perovskite, which hinders charge separation.  3, 4  (2) The stubborn in-plane orientation of 2D perovskite impedes vertical hole transport in devices. Specifically, the organic spacers form thin insulating layers between the more conductive metal halide slabs, adversely affecting the conductivity of 2D perovskite films and impeding charge extraction, as shown in Figure  R2 .  5  This requires ultrathin 2D perovskite layers or incomplete 2D perovskite surface coverage to permit charge tunnelling or extraction via unpassivated regions.  1, [6] [7] [8]  Therefore, optimizing charge transfer in 2D/3D PSCs for further improvement in device performance remains a challenge. We have made some attempts to improve the performance of 2D/3D PSCs. During our exploration, it was found that the efficiencies of PSCs passivated with organic halide salts, such as the widely used phenyl ethyl ammonium iodide (PEAI), without post-treatment thermal annealing are usually higher than that of with thermal annealing (Figure  R3 ). And the difference in device performance derived from whether the 2D perovskite was formed or not. Similar results were also reported by You et.al.  1  Therefore, removing the post-treatment annealing step to enable an organic halide salt capping layer is considered as a more promising passivation strategy, which has been verified by the state-of-the-art PSCs have verified with efficiencies of around 25% published in Nature and Science.  [9] [10] [11]  Organic halide salts reported so far for surface passivation mainly include alkylammonium halides and phenyl ammonium halides. This type of material always has a comprehensive passivation effect on both the cation and anion defects, and enhances the adhesion to the 3D perovskite film through hydrogen bonding or ionic bonding. The ammonium group is thought to form a hydrogen bond with the iodide ion on the 3D perovskite surface;  12  The π-conjugation structure of the aromatic rings can capture electronic defects pertaining to trace amount of neutral iodine;  13  The iodide ions can fill the iodine vacancies and coordinate with the Pb 2+ interstitials.  12  Therefore, organic halide salts can provide an effective passivation effect on the perovskite surface, and avoid the high exciton binding energy and adverse in-plane orientation of 2D perovskite. Even so, PSCs passivated with the commonly used PEAI salt suffer from the efficiency plummet under higher operating temperatures due to the inevitable conversion to 2D perovskite.  1  In fact, we also found that this conversion could happen even under AM 1.5G light illumination, which would weaken the passivation effect of organic halide salt. Therefore, we developed an ortho-(phenylene)di(ethyl ammonium) iodide (o-PDEAI 2 ) that can sustain higher temperatures without undergoing 2D perovskite formation to effectively passivate surface defects via dual -NH 3 I terminals, the phenyl rings, and the iodide ions. Enhancing the formation energy of 2D perovskite by tuning the spatial structure of bulky organic cations is the key factor to prevent them from entering the perovskite lattice and forming 2D perovskite even at elevated temperatures. In comparison, post-treatment with para-(phenylene)di(ethyl ammonium) iodide (p-PDEAI 2 ) easily induced the formation of 2D perovskite due to the lower energy barrier and led to lower device performance than that of o-PDEAI 2 because of the problems mentioned above of 2D/3D structure, such as the higher binding energy and the hindered charge transport by the unfavorable in-plane orientation. Although PEAI and PDEAI 2 passivation exhibits a better passivation effect than their 2D perovskites, the relative lack of studies that directly compare the performance of devices passivated with pristine organic halide salts and their 2D perovskites makes it difficult to assess the generality of the above observations. The type, location, quantity, or other factors of functional groups on organic ammonium cations should influence the passivation properties of organic halide salts and their 2D perovskites, which deserves further systematic studies in the future. We have added a brief description regarding the reason for the improved passivation effect of organic salts to the introduction and photovoltaic performance sections in the revised manuscript.  (3) The authors claimed that the record efficiency (21.4%) for the module with the area of 26 cm 2 . The efficiency could be overestimated, for the results shown in Figure  5c , the Jsc is 2.71 mA/cm 2 , considering that a nine sub-cells connected, the overall equivalent short current density is 24.39 mA/cm 2 (this is almost same as single cell current density), while the geometric fill factor (GFF) was calculated to be 90.2%, this means that the real current density will be 27 mA/cm 2 , this is impossible for the current perovskite material. I think the author has deduct the dead area while calculated the current density of the module, this is misleading. If the author insisted on the module efficiency is reliable, the authors should give a certification results from authorized party such as Newport, AIST, NREL or others. Author reply: Thank you for your precious question. Sorry for the confusion. As we described in the manuscript, 26 cm 2 is the active area, obtained by deducting the dead area from the designated area. And the performance parameters of the modules including J SC of 2.71 mA/cm 2 were calculated based on the active area instead of the designated area. Thus, the real J SC was 24.39 mA/cm 2 , which was slightly lower than that of the small cell (24.75 mA/cm 2 ) and in the reasonable range of J SC values for the FA-based PSCs. Based on the designated area, the J SC and PCE were calculated to be 2.44 mA/cm 2 (overall equivalent J SC of 22.00 mA/cm 2 ) and 19.27%, respectively. The reason why we mainly used the active area to calculate the performance parameters is as follows: The GFF is highly dependent on how advanced the lab-based laser etching technology, and there can be significant differences among different research groups who are mostly focusing on the basic research. Therefore, the module performance parameters based on the active area is also very useful to compare the effectiveness of materials and experimental methods on large-scale application among different research groups, as reported by many recent publications, such as [Science 372, 1327-1332 (  2021  Indeed, we understand that the evaluation of module performance using the designated area is necessary to estimate the real performance in practical application. Therefore, we have added the designated-area performance of perovskite solar modules to the revised manuscript. Also, we removed the text "26 cm 2 " from Figure  5a  to avoid possible misunderstanding. 
 Response to Reviewer #2: Comments to the Author: The authors report a study on organic halide salt passivation to reduce defects in perovskite solar cells (PSCs). The authors studied ortho-, meta-and para-isomers of (phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (PDEAI 2 ) that were used to passivate perovskite defects. They find that the ortho-isomer could prevent the formation of surficial 2D perovskite film for the most sterically hinder, simultaneously maximizing the passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects. At last, the ortho-isomer-based PSCs obtained an efficiency of 23.9%, with high efficiency of 21.4% for the perovskite module (an active area of 26 cm 2 ). 
 Reply: We thank the reviewer for the time spent reviewing our work. We appreciated the constructive points raised, which we believed helped in improving the quality of our work. Here below, the specific comments have been considered, and action has been taken to fulfil the reviewer request. (1) Many reports showed that a thin surficial 2D perovskite layer could improve the efficiency of the device, such as the author's work (Sci China Mater 2020, 63(1): 47-54). However, the authors said that the para-isomer that could form surficial 2D perovskite film decreased the device's performance from the PCE of 20.71% (control) to 20.30% (para-isomer). Author reply: We appreciate the reviewer for the careful review and precious question. As the reviewer mentioned, some 2D perovskites have been reported to have a passivation effect and improve the device performance. We also have been focusing on this topic and screened out some suitable 2D perovskite passivators in the past few years.  [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19]  The 2D perovskite capping layer with upwardly shifting band edges could facilitate the hole extraction and block the charge recombination at the perovskite/HTL interface to improve the device performance. However, there are also two intrinsic issues of 2D perovskite adverse to the device performance. (1) 2D perovskite exhibits inferior optoelectrical properties for photovoltaic application. The high optical bandgap (≈ 2.4 eV) shortens the spectral window for light absorption. The high exciton binding energy (300-500 meV) hinders charge separation. The poor electrical conductivity (10 -5 S m -1 ) inhibit the charge transport.  3, 4, 20  (2) The in-plane orientation of surficial 2D perovskite films was commonly observed due to the minimized surface energy, while this hinders the out-of-plane charge transport and leads to a high degree of electrical anisotropy because of the insulating character of the bulky organic cations.  5  Therefore, the influence of 2D perovskite passivation on device performance depends on the comprehensive effect of these above-mentioned factors. It cannot be concluded that all 2D perovskite materials can behave as good passivators. The type, location, quantity, and other factors of functional groups on organic ammonium cations directly influence the 2D perovskite properties and thus their passivation effect. For example, some 2D perovskites showed adverse passivation effect and decreased device performance, such as those based on 1,4-butanediammonium iodide (C4), 2-[2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy]ethan-1-ammonium iodide (EDBE), and p-phenyl diammonium iodide (PDAI) as reported before and also para-(phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (p-PDEAI 2 ) in this work.  13, 21  A general rule to judge which type of 2D perovskites can provide an overall positive passivation effect for enhancing the device performance is worth to be systematically investigated and established in the future. The explanation for the slight decrease in efficiency for p-PDEAI 2 -based devices has been added to the revised manuscript. (2) In the assignment of the different phenyl-diethyl ammonium iodide (PDEAI 2 ) solutions post-treatment on the final PSCs performance, only used the concentration of 2 mg mL -1 , where there is no optimized process. Author reply: We thank the reviewer for the helpful advice. The optimization of the PDEAI 2 concentrations has been conducted as shown in Table  R1 . The highest efficiency was achieved by o-PDEAI 2 passivation with the concentration of 2 mg mL -1 . For p-PDEAI 2 passivation, over 21% efficiencies were achieved by 1 and 2 mg mL -1 , while further increasing the concentration would decrease the efficiency. For m-PDEAI 2 passivation, the efficiencies continuously decreased as the concentration increased. The detailed optimization of concentrations of PDEAI 2 post-treatment has been added to the Supplementary Information as Supplementary Table  4 .   [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27]  In fact, the energy level distribution for the passivated perovskite film and the formation reason are complicated. As shown in Figure  R5 , since the more n-type region has a higher electron concentration than the less n-type region, electrons diffuse from the more n-type side to the less n-type side. When the electrons move away, they leave exposed positive ion cores in a more n-type side because they are fixed in the crystal lattice and cannot move. Similarly, on the less n-type side, negative ion cores are exposed. An electric field forms between the two regions, which is responsible for the drift of electrons from the less to more n-type side and hinders the diffusion of electrons. During this process, the E F along with the energy level of the more n-type region moves down, while E F along with the energy level of the less n-type region moves up until an equilibrium situation of diffusion and drift is reached and the two E F is levelled at the same time. This causes a bending of the energy bands with the upwards band bending moving from more n-type to less n-type region. The same bandgap of perovskite in both regions determines that the E V of the more n-type side is lower than that of the less n-type side after bending, which indicates an effective energy level alignment to promote hole extraction and transport. In fact, taking advantage of the energy band bending to improve the hole transport and extraction has also been reported in 2D/3D PSCs.  28, 29  However, this strategy is not feasible for all cases of 2D/3D structure because the energy band bending is influenced by the E F , E V and bandgap of the 2D perovskite. For example, the 2-thiophenemethylammonium chloride (2-TMACl)-based 2D perovskite showed an improper energy band bending with 3D perovskite because of its excessively high E F and low E V values.  28  This is possibly one of the reasons why different 2D perovskites have different passivation effects.  Author reply: We thank the reviewer for the comment. PL decay kinetics were measured using the Edinburgh Instruments time-correlated single-photon counting (TCSPC) fluorescence spectrometer F900. The picosecond pulsed diode laser EPL-470 emitting 72 ps pulses at 470 nm with the repetition rate of 500 kHz (interval 2 μs) was used for the sample excitation. The time resolution of the setup was about several hundreds of picoseconds by applying apparatus function deconvolution. Voltage-dependent PL decay measurements were performed by varying the reverse bias voltage applied to the cell from 0 to 2.5 V in steps of 0.5 V and simultaneously measuring the PL lifetime at each voltage. The PL decay kinetics were fitted using the intensity-weighted double exponential functions ( ̅ = ∑ / ∑ ) to estimate the average lifetimes. The primary experiment process of voltage-dependent transient PL measurement has been provided in the characterization of the revised manuscript. 
 Response to Reviewer #3: Comments to the Author: The manuscript explores approaches to passivate the surface of perovskite materials with 'large' ammonium cations, while at the same time preventing to form a 2D perovskite phases that introduces a substantial barrier for charge extraction. The authors show very convincingly that the use ortho-phenylenediethylammonium is a viable approach to reach this and characterize the different mutual placements of the ethylammonium groups in detail. The study is very thorough and show the effects on the device performance (both in small cells and in modules) very convincingly and is supported by measurements of carrier lifetimes by (voltage dependent) PL and surface potential by Kelvin probe measurements. I believe is an interesting contribution that should attract considerable attention in the perovskite field and hence should be published in Nature Commun. There are a few things that the authors may address to improve the manuscript: Reply: We thank the reviewer for the time spent reviewing our work. We appreciated the constructive comments and suggestions, which we believed helped improve the quality of our work. According to the reviewer's suggestions, the manuscript has been revised and its quality has been improved. (1) The structures obtained from the calculations are interesting but it is very hard to make out in the figures provided what they actually look like. For the meta-compound the authors discuss binding of both ammonium groups, does this lead to distortion of the surface, leading to trapping? Does the ortho-compound also bond with both the ammonium groups? Author reply: Thank you for your valuable question. To facilitate reading, we have provided the supporting figures with the zoomed view of the different structures focusing on the adsorbed molecule, see Figure  R6 . The adsorption of all the three isomeric cations leads to some surface reconstruction due to its favourable binding tendency. However, in this work, we have not looked into the aspects of the formation possibility of surface defect traps and we feel that it is beyond the scope of this study. Nevertheless, the increased binding affinity of the ortho cation is associated with the reduced defect formation possibility, which is likely the reason for the improved defect passivation in the ortho isomer. In all three isomeric cations, we attempted to check the adsorption behaviours through both the two ammonium groups and phenyl rings. Upon relaxation, all the three isomers bind with both the ammonium groups. On the other hand, while binding through the phenyl ring, the cations orient themselves to some extent in order to get the local minima structures. The supporting zoomed view of the different adsorption modes is shown in Figure  R6 . The corresponding description and zoomed figure have been added to the revised manuscript and supplementary information. (2) I believe that some discussion on general design principles that can be derived from this study would be useful. Would the same effects be expected for any ammonium compound that does not have a tendency to form a 2D perovskite phase? What is the relevance of the presence of two alkyl ammoniums? Would a single one do the trick as long as it is attached to an organic group that does not allow 2D-phase formation? Author reply: We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestion. This work also attempts to explore the design principles for organic halide salt passivation of perovskites. Based on our experience and knowledge, we believe that the influence of organic halide salts on the passivation effect of perovskite is complicated. (1) Not all organic halide salts, which do not form 2D perovskites have a positive passivation effect. For example, besides meta-(phenylene)di(ethyl ammonium) iodide (m-PDEAI 2 ) in this work, we also found that passivation with hexa-2,4-diyne-1,6-diammonium iodide (HDDAI) decreased the device performance probably due to its overhigh electron-withdrawing capability. (2) Two alkyl ammoniums normally endow the organic cation with stronger adsorption on the perovskite surface. For example, the adsorption energies of o-PDEA (-10.00 eV), m-PDEA (-10.50 eV) and p-PDEA (-9.76 eV) cations are higher than that of the PEA cation (-9.28 eV) for the ethyl ammonium adsorption modes (Supplementary Table  2 ). This higher adsorption energy usually enables more organic cations to adhered to the perovskite surface for better defect passivation. However, this is not absolute, because the passivation effect is a result of comprehensive factors. Some diammonium cations decreasing the device efficiency after surface passivation, such as m-PDEAI 2 and p-phenyl diammonium iodide (PDAI).  13  (3) Single ammonium organic halide salts including phenyl ethyl ammonium iodide (PEAI), octyl ammonium iodide (OAI), dodecyl ammonium iodide (DAI), 4-tert-butyl-benzyl ammonium iodide (tBBAI), and 1,4-octane diammonium iodide (C8), have been demonstrated to have superior passivation effect, while this was achieved by removing the post-treatment thermal annealing to suppress the formation of 2D perovskite.  1, 11, 21, 30  For the single ammonium organic cation, which inherently inhibits the formation of 2D perovskite, tert-butylammonium (tBA) was reported to passivate interface defects and improve device performance. Whereas and the reason for the suppression of the 2D phase is that tBA is a small size cation, which can be incorporated into the 3D perovskite lattice by ion exchange and reaction with PbI 2 .  31  Although there is still a lack of reported cases, we believe that bulky single ammonium organic cations, which do not allow 2D perovskite formation by altering organic groups, should provide good passivation effect if the functional groups are also favorable. Overall, we speculate that: (1) The type, structure, location, quantity, or other factors of functional groups on ammonium cations comprehensively impact the passivation properties of organic halide salts. The widely used functional groups in passivating organic cations are alkyl aromatic groups and long alkyl chains. In consideration of the good passivation effects of N, F, S, and O heteroatoms and their related functional groups in additive engineering, they can also be incorporated into organic halide salts to further enhance the passivation effect in the future. (2) Preventing the organic cations from forming 2D perovskites under thermal and light conditions is crucial to ensure their continuous and stable passivation effect. Based on our experience, regulation of the molecule structure to adjust the chemical environment and steric effect of ammoniums may effectively increase the formation energy barrier of 2D perovskites, as revealed by this work. A brief outlook has been added to the conclusion in the revised manuscript.  Organic halide salt passivation is considered to be an essential strategy to reduce defects in state-of-the-art perovskite solar cells (PSCs). This strategy, however, suffers from the inevitable formation of in-plane favored two-dimensional (2D) perovskite layers with impaired charge transport, especially under thermal conditions, impeding photovoltaic performance and device scale-up. To overcome this limitation, we studied the energy barrier of 2D perovskite formation from ortho-, metaand para-isomers of (phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (PDEAI 2 ) that were designed for tailored defect passivation. Treatment with the most sterically hindered ortho-isomer not only prevents the formation of surficial 2D perovskite film, even at elevated temperatures, but also maximizes the passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects. The ensuing PSCs achieve an efficiency of 23.9% with longterm operational stability (over 1000 h). Importantly, a record efficiency of 21.4% for the perovskite module with an active area of 26 cm 2 was achieved. A s the front runner among emerging photovoltaic technologies, perovskite solar cells (PSCs) with certified power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) over 25% show great promise for scale-up and future commercialization due to relatively simple and low-cost solution processes  [1] [2] [3] [4]  . However, the disordered stoichiometric compositions at surfaces, the loss of organic components during thermal annealing, and the heterogeneous polycrystalline nature inevitably generate abundant defects in the solution-processed perovskite films, particularly at surfaces and grain boundaries  [5] [6] [7] [8]  . Such defects incur electronic states in the bandgap of the perovskite and behave as nonradiative recombination centers, which shorten the carrier lifetime and limit the photovoltaic performance  9  . Moreover, these defects are responsible for local charge accumulation, accelerated ion migration, and the initial invasion of moisture or oxygen, ultimately causing device instability issues  3  . The defects also hinder the scale-up of PSCs to modules, thus restricting commercialization  10  . To address this problem, various defect reduction methods have been proposed including (i) composition tuning  [11] [12] [13]  , (ii) crystal growth regulation  [14] [15] [16]  , and (iii) surface passivation  [17] [18] [19] [20]  . To date, surficial post-treatment by alkylammonium halides is commonly exploited to achieve efficient and stable perovskite devices, and many compounds have been evaluated  [21] [22] [23] [24]  . Typically, an additional two-dimensional (2D) perovskite layer is formed on top of the primary perovskite absorber after treatment with alkylammonium halides, improving the stability of the devices  8, 25, 26  . A stubborn in-plane orientation and high exciton binding energy are usually observed for the surficial 2D perovskite layer, which potentially suppresses charge transport and draws back the passivation effect, especially when using bulkier spacer cations  [27] [28] [29]  . For this reason, recently, You et al. removed the annealing process after post-treatment to enable a thin phenylethylammonium iodide (PEAI) layer instead of a 2D perovskite layer for more effective surface passivation  30  . As a result, they achieved a certified PCE of over 23%, benefiting from a combination of promotion of charge transport by the π-conjugated phenyl rings, reduction of Pb 2+ interstitials through amine coordination, and filling of iodine vacancies by iodide ions  17  . However, these devices still suffered from a plummet in PCE under higher operating temperatures due to the conversion of PEAI to 2D PEA 2 PbI 4 . Therefore, an alkylammonium halide that can sustain higher temperatures without undergoing 2D perovskite formation is highly desirable to effectively passivate surface defects for efficient and stable PSCs and modules. Herein, we describe surface passivation of perovskite films using ortho-(phenylene)di(ethylammonium) iodide (o-PDEAI 2 ) that leads to high-performance PSCs and modules. From an investigation of the ortho-, meta-, and para-isomers for PDEAI 2 , the ortho-isomer effectively increases the energy barrier of the 2D perovskite formation and prevents the bulky organic cations from entering the perovskite lattice even at elevated temperatures. Surficial o-PDEAI 2 exhibits a comprehensive passivation effect on both shallow-and deep-level defects, which suppresses nonradiative recombination and improves interfacial charge extraction, resulting in a PCE of 23.9% in PSCs with enhanced longterm stability at ambient and elevated temperatures, and lightsoaking conditions. Furthermore, a o-PDEAI 2 -based perovskite module, with an active area of 26 cm 2 , presents a record efficiency of 21.4%. 
 Results 
 Isomer construction for suppressing 2D perovskite formation. The ortho-, meta-, and para-isomers of PDEAI 2 (Fig.  1a ) were prepared and further details are provided in the Supplementary Information. To examine their potential to form 2D perovskites, films composed of equimolar quantities of PDEAI 2 and PbI 2 were fabricated. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the para-PDEAI 2 (p-PDEAI 2 )-based film (Fig.  1b ) exhibit a dominant peak at ∼7.15°associated with (002) lattice reflections of the 2D (p-PDEA)PbI 4 perovskite  31, 32  . The meta-PDEAI 2 (m-PDEAI 2 )based film contains the same peak, but with a much lower relative intensity, implying that the 2D perovskite is formed, but to a much lower extent. The non-perovskite amorphous XRD pattern observed in the o-PDEAI 2 -based film suggests that the 2D perovskite cannot be formed. Absorption and photoluminescence (PL) spectra reveal a similar trend (Fig.  1c ). The p-PDEAI 2 -based film shows an exciton absorption around 516 nm and a PL emission around 532 nm, assigned to the characteristic peaks of 2D perovskite with layer thickness n = 1  33  . These optical characteristics were not observed in the m-PDEAI 2 -based sample due to the negligible 2D component in the film. Similarly, no absorption or emission signal was identified in the region 500-600 nm for o-PDEAI 2 -based film, indicating that the formation of 2D perovskite is disfavored. Next, PDEAI 2 isopropanol solutions were spin-coated onto the perovskite surface and experiments were performed to determine whether the surficial 2D perovskite is formed during the posttreatment process, especially under thermal induction. Widely used PEAI was employed for comparison. Figure  1d  displays the temperature-dependent PL spectra of perovskite films under 450 nm excitation. As the temperature increases, the films deposited with PEAI and p-PDEAI 2 show enhanced emission in the 510-540 nm region, evidencing the growth of 2D perovskite with n = 1 on the film surface (Fig.  1b ). In contrast, posttreatment with m-PDEAI 2 and o-PDEAI 2 did not lead to the formation of surficial 2D perovskite, even at elevated temperatures. This was further confirmed by the temperature-dependent XRD (Fig.  1e  and Supplementary Fig.  2 ), where reinforced (002) reflections of 2D perovskite were observed for the p-PDEAI 2 -and PEAI-treated films whereas no peak was observed for the other two films. The upper 2D (p-PDEA)PbI 4 perovskite shows a lower diffraction intensity than that of the (PEA) 2 PbI 4 , which is commonly observed for other Dion-Jacobson (DJ) perovskites  31, 34  . Grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS) was used to probe the crystal orientation of the annealed films (Fig.  1f ). The surficial (PEA) 2 PbI 4 exhibits a combined feature of diffraction arcs and Bragg spots along the q z direction at 0.39 Å -1 and 0.78 Å -1 , implying a random but predominantly in-plane orientation of the (002) and (004) crystal planes. A similar orientation was observed for (p-PDEA)PbI 4 with the characteristic (002) crystal plane at q z = 0.51 Å -1 . Only diffraction signals corresponding to the three-dimensional (3D) perovskite (q z = 1.00 Å -1 ) and excess PbI 2 (q z = 0.91 Å -1 ) were identified for the m-PDEAI 2 -and o-PDEAI 2 -treated films, which is consistent with the XRD results (Supplementary Fig.  2 ). It is evident that both the monoammonium and the para-diammonium substituents on the phenyl ring enable organic halide salts to react with PbI 2 from the underlying 3D perovskite during the post-treatment process and form an in-planeorientation dominated 2D perovskite on the surface (Fig.  1g ). The arbitrary, especially in-plane, orientation will block the charge transport along with the inorganic framework due to the alternant insulating organic layers  35  . In contrast, m-PDEAI 2 and o-PDEAI 2 form a thin organic halide salt layer instead of 2D perovskite layer on the surface, which may avoid the energy disorder and the efficiency loss at elevated operating temperatures. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to understand the specific behavior of each PDEAI 2 isomer. The formation energies of 2D perovskites formed from p-PDEAI 2 , ) passivation is achieved by the cumulative effect related to the number of cations that can be adsorbed per unit surface area. The optimized structures were processed to estimate the maximum number of cations that may be adsorbed on a 2 × 2 supercell (17.7 Å 2 ) of perovskite surface, as illustrated in the insets of Fig.  2b . For the p-PDEA cation, only 4 cations can be adsorbed, increasing to 4-6 for m-PDEA and 6 for o-PDEA cations. Therefore, it can be qualitatively argued that the o-PDEA cation shows a better surface passivation effect due to the increased binding affinity and higher coverage, which may reduce the possibility of defect formation. q xy (Å -1 ) PEAI p-PDEAI 2 m-PDEAI 2 o-PDEAI 2 p-PDEAI 2 m-PDEAI 2 o-PDEAI 2 (002) To examine the passivation effect, we incorporated the PDEAI 2 isomers onto the perovskite film with a surficial morphology corresponding to that shown in Supplementary Fig.  7 , and the photovoltaic devices were fabricated with a typical configuration consisting of fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO)/TiO 2 /SnO 2 /perovskite/PDEAI 2 /2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis-(N,N-di-4-methoxyphenylamino)-9,9′spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD)/Au (Fig.  3a ). Current density (J)-voltage (V) characteristics of the devices are compared in Supplementary Fig.  8a  and Supplementary Table  3 . As expected, the devices with p-PDEAI 2 show slightly lower PCEs compared to the control devices, ascribed to the high binding energy and electrical anisotropy of 2D (p-PDEA)PbI 4 layer that hinders the charge separation and out-of-plane charge transport  29  . Interestingly, a comparatively low efficiency was observed for the m-PDEAI 2 -based devices. This may be rationalized by the two -CH 2 -CH 2 -NH 3 + groups of m-PDEA anchoring at adjacent octahedral voids of the perovskite surface (Supplementary Fig.  5 ), which might cause carrier stagnation and resultant charge recombination. Among the three isomers, o-PDEAI 2 has the best passivation effect, improving the average PCE from 20.88% of the control device to 22.41%, mainly reflected by the enhanced fill factor (FF) and open-circuit voltage (V OC ). The effective passivation of o-PDEAI 2 may be attributed to (i) the high adsorption density on the perovskite, (ii) the strong adsorption energy due to the diammonium structure, and (iii) the electrostatic interactions with the defective perovskite surface  17, 36  . As a result, the best-performing PSC passivated with o-PDEAI 2 shows a PCE of 23.92%, with a V OC of 1.157 V, a short-circuit current (J SC ) of 24.75 mA cm -2 , and an FF of 83.50%, in which the concentration of the o-PDEAI 2 was optimized to be 2 mg mL -1 (Supplementary Table  4 ), compared to the best control device with a PCE of 21.94%, V OC of 1.135 V, J SC of 24.49 mA cm -2 and FF of 79.00%. The integrated J SC values from the external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectra in Supplementary Fig.  8b  matches well with those measured from the J-V curves (< 1% discrepancy). A stabilized power output of 23.50% and negligible hysteresis are demonstrated for the o-PDEAI 2 -based device as shown in Fig.  3b . Also, the statistic histogram reveals good reproductivity with 75% of the devices having PCEs exceeding 22% (Fig.  3c ), confirming the effectiveness of o-PDEAI 2 passivation. To elucidate the passivation effect on the hole extraction and carrier dynamics in the devices, voltage-dependent transient PL and transient photocurrent studies were performed. Supplementary Fig.  9a-e   treated with PDEAI 2 and nontreated perovskite films covered with spiro-OMeTAD deposited on glass substrates (see Supplementary Fig.  9f  for kinetics and Supplementary Table  5  for biexponential fitting parameters). For comparison, we have also investigated a pure nontreated perovskite film, which showed a long lifetime of 284 ns indicating a high material quality  38  . The spiro-OMeTAD layer significantly shortens the PL decay due to efficient hole extraction. Passivation with the different PDEAI 2 isomers shows qualitatively similar results as for the complete devices confirming their influence on the hole extraction rate. The carrier extraction dynamics were revealed by transient photocurrent measurements. Due to the high capacitance of the devices restricting the time resolution of photocurrent measurements, the carrier extraction investigations were performed in integral mode measuring discharging of the device capacitance by photocurrents, when voltage was applied through a high (1 kΩ) resistor. The signal growth, in this case, corresponds to the cumulated extracted charge. Figure  3e   We further addressed the role of PDEAI 2 passivation by investigating transient photocurrent kinetics in lateral sample geometry. The perovskite films were formed on an interdigitated comb of Pt electrodes (IDE) with 5 μm interelectrode distances and a spiro-MeOTAD layer was deposited on top of perovskite films. Due to the large, 5 μm interelectrode distance, the carrier extraction was slow. We also used low excitation intensity, when carrier recombination could be ignored. In these conditions, the photocurrent kinetics on a sub-microsecond time scale was mainly determined by the carrier trapping and by the hole extraction to hole transport layer (HTL)  39  . The control device with HTL shows faster photocurrent decay than that without HTL during initial ~50 ns due to the hole extraction (Fig.  3f ). The influence of PDEAI 2 treatment is expected to be bilateral: passivation of surface traps shall cause slower photocurrent decay, and modification of the hole extraction rate may cause additional photocurrent changes. Indeed, all passivated samples show slower photocurrent decay indicating reduced carrier trapping. The m-PDEAI 2 -treated sample shows particularly slow decay, apparently because of reduced carrier trapping and the prevented hole extraction. While the o-PDEAI 2 -treated sample shows similar slow carrier decay during initial ~20 ns, due to reduced carrier trapping, but at longer times the photocurrent decays faster attributed to the improved hole extraction. The overall transient PL and photocurrent results provide indications of interfacial trap passivation by the PDEAI 2 isomers and also demonstrate that o-PDEAI 2 treatment reduces the carrier transfer barrier at the perovskite/HTL junction and effectively increases the hole extraction rate contributing to the FF enhancement of PSCs. Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) was used to understand the surface energy band structure with and without o-PDEAI 2 . The work function is determined to be -4.45 eV and -4.91 eV for the pristine perovskite surface and the o-PDEAI 2 passivated surface, respectively (Supplementary Fig.  10 ). This shift is in accordance with the change in surface potential probed by Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) as reflected in Fig.  4a . The o-PDEAI 2 -passivated surface exhibits a lower average electronic chemical potential (0.16 mV) than that of the control (0.33 mV). The downshifted energy level suggests a less n-type surface after o-PDEAI 2 treatment, which causes upwards band bending and improves hole transport and extraction for higher V OC values  40, 41  . Confocal PL microscopy mapping was applied to probe the homogeneity of perovskite films. The film with o-PDEAI 2 presents more uniform PL emission compared to the control film, indicating less surface defect densities (Fig.  4b ). This is also revealed by the cathodoluminescence (CL) intensity maps, where a more homogeneous distribution was demonstrated for the film with o-PDEAI 2 passivation (Fig.  4c ). To complement these data the corresponding CL spectra (Supplementary Fig.  11 ) confirm that o-PDEAI 2 treatment does not induce 2D perovskite formation on the surface and the CL peaks at around 508 nm may be assigned to the presence of excess PbI 2 in both films. To confirm the presence of o-PDEAI 2 on the perovskite surface, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed. The high-resolution XPS patterns of C 1s (Supplementary Fig.  12 ) show an emerging peak at ~291.0 eV, corresponding to the conjugated π-π bonding of the phenyl group in o-PDEAI 2  30  . The XPS pattern of Pb 4f for the control film displays two dominant peaks located at 138. 8 and 143.7 eV, assigned to the Pb 4f 7/2 and Pb 4f 5/2 , respectively (Fig.  4d ), which shift to 139.1 and 144.0 eV for the film with o-PDEAI 2 . This shift to higher binding energies reflects the modified electronic states of the perovskite atoms due to interactions between o-PDEAI 2 and the perovskite surface  41  . In addition, another two peaks located at 137.0 and 141.9 eV arising from the metallic Pb were observed in the control film, which were not observed in the passivated film. This implies that o-PDEAI 2 can combine with under-coordinated Pb 2+ ions and thereby avoid the formation of metallic Pb, thus restraining the ionic defects and improving the operational stability of the PSCs 42 . To quantify the passivation effect of o-PDEAI 2 , a Mott-Schottky analysis and trap density of states (tDOS) measurements were conducted on the complete devices. As indicated in Fig.  4e , the higher built-in potential (1.146 vs 1.121 V) and lower interfacial charge density (2.73 × 10 15 vs 3.50 × 10 15 cm -3 ) for the o-PDEAI 2 -passivated device demonstrates that the o-PDEAI 2 layer can enhance the driving force of carrier injection and reduce the recombination losses at the interface  10  . The tDOS distribution under each energy demarcation was characterized as shown in Fig.  4f . The charging and discharging of trap states within the bandgap contributes to a larger variation in capacitance with the change of frequencies. Thus, the frequency differential capacitance can disclose the defects at certain energy demarcations  43  . It was found that the control device has higher trap densities of 10 19 -10 21 m -3 eV -1 over three trap bands. After o-PDEAI 2 treatment, the tDOS was reduced over the entire energy region, to 10 18 -10 20 m -3 eV -1 , confirming that the o-PDEAI 2 effectively passivate the defects with both shallow and deep energy levels on the surface of perovskite film. We further evaluated the scalability of surface passivation by o-PDEAI 2 by fabricating a perovskite solar module with a total active area of 26.00 cm 2 (Fig.  5a ). The module was completed by laser etching with 9 subcells in series and the interconnection is schematically illustrated in Fig.  5b . Encouragingly, the perovskite solar module based on o-PDEAI 2 passivation exhibits a V OC of 10.30 V, a J SC of 2.71 mA cm -2 , an FF of 76.40%, and a PCE of 21.36% (Fig.  5c  and Supplementary Fig.  13 ), which corresponds to a designated-area efficiency of 19.27%. This is one of the highest efficiencies reported so far for perovskite solar modules (Supplementary Table  6 )  44  . The high module performance Shelf life and operational stability. Long-term stability tests were carried out to study the influence of o-PDEAI 2 layer on device stability. The PCEs of the unencapsulated devices under a RH of 40-50% were first tracked over time (Fig.  5d ). The control device maintains 58% of the initial PCE (20.82%) after 1008 h, compared to that of 85% for the o-PDEAI 2 passivated device with an initial efficiency of 22.65%. The thermal stability was also evaluated by heating the perovskite films and corresponding devices at 85 °C in a nitrogen atmosphere. As shown in Fig.  5e , the o-PDEAI 2 passivated device (initial PCE 22.38%) degrades by 25% over 1000 h, compared to a 49% decrease for the control device (initial PCE 20.32%). Interestingly, an efficiency plummet is not observed at the start of the annealing process. That is, the suppression of converting o-PDEAI 2 into 2D perovskite effectively retains the passivation effect under constant heating, and avoids the PCE drop at the initial stage, which was normally observed in the widely used PEAI passivation  30  . XRD tracking shows that the thermal degradation of these perovskite films results from the decomposition of the perovskite material (Fig.  5f ). The control film shows an increase in the intensity of the peaks that correspond to PbI 2 , whereas decomposition is retarded after o-PDEAI 2 passivation, indicating the o-PDEAI 2 passivation layer reduces the release of volatile organic components and enhances the resistance to heat of the perovskite material  45  . The continuous performance of the unencapsulated PSCs was also examined by MPPT under 1 sun illumination in an inert atmosphere (Fig.  5g ). The device passivated with o-PDEAI 2 exhibits enhanced light stability, maintaining >90% of its original PCE after 1100 h, outperforming the control device, which degrades to >60% of the initial PCE. The robust ambient and operational stability of the o-PDEAI 2 -based device may be attributed to the hydrophobicity of the phenyl group, the mitigated interfacial charge accumulation, and the suppressed ion migration benefiting from the passivation of defects  46, 47  . 
 Discussion We demonstrate that o-PDEAI 2 is an effective passivation agent which affords highly efficient and stable PSCs. Experimental and theoretical studies indicate that locating the two ammonium cations in the most sterically hindered ortho position endows o-PDEAI 2 with an energy barrier for the formation of the in-plane favored 2D perovskite together with stronger defect passivation effects compared to the other structural isomers, to significantly reduce interfacial charge recombination. Passivation with o-PDEAI 2 boosts the efficiency of PSCs and modules (active area of 26 cm 2 ) to 23.9% and 21.4%, respectively, while ensuring longterm stabilities over 1000 h. This study demonstrates that altering functional groups and chemical structures should be an effective strategy to develop novel organic cation passivators with continuous and stable passivation effect, which may pave the way for scaling up perovskite photovoltaics to sizes of commercial relevance. 
 Methods Device fabrication. The TiO 2 compact (c-TiO 2 ) layer was deposited onto the cleaned FTO (Nippon Sheet Glass, TEC8) substrates by spray pyrolysis of titanium diisopropoxide bis(acetylacetonate) (75 wt.% in isopropanol, Sigma-Aldrich) diluted in anhydrous isopropanol (99.8%, Acros Organics) with 1:20 volume ratio at 450 °C and then annealed at 450 °C for 30 min. TiO 2 paste (30NR-D, GreatCell Solar) was diluted in anhydrous ethanol (99.8%, Acros Organics) with a weight ratio of 1:10 and spin-coated onto substrates at 3000 rpm for 20 s. The films were then annealed at 500 °C for 30 min in air. After cooling, 0.1 M SnCl 4 (99%, Acros Organics) aqueous solution was deposited on the substrate at 3000 rpm for 30 s. The films were then dried at 190 °C for 1 h and transferred into a nitrogen glovebox. 1.45 M perovskite precursors (PbI 2 :PbBr 2 :FAI:MAI:CsI:MACl = 0.98:0.02:0.81:0.04:0.05:0.20) were dissolved in the mixed DMF (99.8%, Acros Organics): DMSO (99.7%, Acros Organics) = 4:1 (volume ratio) solvent. The perovskite solution was spin-coated on substrates at 1000 rpm for 12 s and 5000 rpm for 28 s, respectively. 200 µL of chlorobenzene (99.8%, Acros Organics) was dropped onto the spinning films at 15 s before the end of the second step, followed by annealing at 100 °C for 10 min and 150 °C for 10 min. For the post treatment, phenyldiethylammonium iodide (PDEAI 2 ) solutions in anhydrous isopropanol (99.8%, Acros Organics) were deposited on the perovskite films at 4000 rpm for 20 s, followed by annealing at 100 °C for 5 min. 0.06 M spiro-OMeTAD was dissolved in chlorobenzene (99.8%, Acros Organics), adding 0.2 M 4-tert-Butylpyridine (98%, Sigma-Aldrich), 0.03 M bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide lithium salt (LiTFSI, 99.0%, Sigma-Aldrich) in acetonitrile (99.9%, Acros Organics) and 0.0035 M FK209 Co(III) TFSI salt (GreatCell Solar) in acetonitrile (99.9%, Acros Organics). The spiro-OMeTAD solution was spin-coated at 3000 rpm for 20 s, followed by thermal evaporation of a 70 nm gold electrode under a high vacuum. For module fabrication, 6.5 cm × 7 cm FTO substrates were patterned by laser with nine subcells connected in series. The film deposition processes were the same as the normal solar cells as described above. The geometric fill factor (GFF) was calculated to be 90.2%, which was defined as the active area divided by the designated area. Characterization. The GIWAXS was measured with a photon energy of 8.03 keV (1.55 Å) at an incident angle of 0.3°. PL decay kinetics were measured using the Edinburgh Instruments time-correlated single-photon counting (TCSPC) fluorescence spectrometer F900. Voltage-dependent PL decay measurements were performed by varying the reverse bias voltage applied to the cell from 0 to 2.5 V in steps of 0.5 V and simultaneously measuring the PL lifetime at each voltage. The PL decay kinetics were fitted using the intensity-weighted double exponential functions ( τ ¼ ∑ 2 i¼1 A i τ i 2 =∑ 2 i¼1 A i τ i ) to estimate the average lifetimes. The KPFM images were acquired using an MFP-3D Infinity with AC bias modulation at 7.5KHz and 4 V amplitude in ambient. The UPS was measured by an AXIS Nova spectrometer (Kratos Analytical Ltd, UK) with a He-I source (21.22 eV). The XPS was examined by VersaProbe II (Physical Electronics Inc.) with an Al-Ka source of 1486.6 eV. The micro-PL maps were obtained with an Acton Standard Series SP-2558 laser confocal Raman spectrometer (Princeton Instruments), a digital CCD (PIXIS:100B_eXcelon), and a 485 nm laser (PicoQuant LDH-P-C-485). CL measurements were performed on the Attolight ROSA 4634 CL SEM at 1 kV and 50 nm per pixel for the image of 128 × 128 pixels. J-V characteristics of the devices were characterized by a commercial solar simulator (Oriel, 450 W xenon, AAA class) combined with a Keithley 2400 source meter at room temperature in air. The light intensity was calibrated before each measurement with a Si reference cell (KG5, Newport) to match with the AM 1.5 G (100 mW cm -2 ) standard. The voltage scan rate and scan steps were 125 mV s -1 and 10 mV, respectively. No light soaking or voltage bias was applied before the measurement and the active area of the cells was defined by a black metal mask with a square aperture of the area of 0.09 cm 2 . For solar modules, the voltage scan rate was 5 V s -1 and scan steps were 50 mV, and the active area is 26 cm 2 . The statistics of PCEs for devices were obtained from 20 samples for each condition. The EQE spectra were recorded with an IQE200B (Oriel). The stability test was conducted under 100 mW cm -2 LED illumination at 25 °C and the devices were sealed in a cell holder flushed with a N 2 flow of ~30 mL min -1 . For the humidity test, the unsealed solar cells were kept in the ambient of 40-50% RH monitored by a hygrometer at room temperature in the dark. For the thermal stability test, the solar cells were kept at 85 °C in nitrogen under dark conditions. Transient photocurrent measurements were performed with an Agilent Technologies DS05054A oscilloscope using a 1 kΩ input resistor and a Tektronix AFG 3101 function generator. The Mott-Schottky curve was recorded with an SP-200 potentiostat (BioLogic). 69. Anal. calcd for C10H18I2N2: C 28.59; H 4.32; N 6.67; I 60.42; found: C 30,25; H 4,26; N 6,2. C10H18I2N2[M + ] exact mass = 419.96. MS (ESI) = 418.83. 
 isolated box with Gamma kpoint sampling. Perovskite surface was modeled by cutting 2 × 2 slabs from the bulk tetragonal MAPbI3 crystal structure, which exposes MAI-terminated (001) surface. The 2 × 2 slabs (a = b = 17.7 Å) were optimized with Gamma point sampling. The experimental MAPbI3 cell parameters were employed to build a periodic supercell in the x and y directions, whereas a vacuum of more than 10 Å is introduced along the surface truncation direction. The reaction thermodynamics of the cation replacement process were calculated by considering the following equilibrium: MAI-terminated slab + cationic molecule = cation inserted MAI-terminated slab + 2 MA molecules. Adsorption energy (Eads) is calculated using the following formula: Eads = Eslab+cationic molecule adsorbed -Eslab -Ecationic molecule, where Eslab+cationic molecule adsorbed represents the total energy of the adsorbed cationic molecules with the slab, Eslab is the total energy of the bare slab, and Ecationic molecule is the energy of the isolated cationic molecule in a large supercell. The absolute values of the adsorption energies are large because of the adsorption of a gas-phase cationic molecule. 
 Figure R1 . R1 Figure R1. Optimized structures for the adsorption of PEA cation on the perovskite surface; (a) through -NH 3 and (b) through phenyl group. 
 Figure R2 . R2 Figure R2. Schematic illustration of 2D perovskite and organic halide salt-assembled perovskite surface. 
 Figure R3 . R3 Figure R3. J-V characteristics of the PEAI-passivated devices with and without thermal annealing. 
 ); Nature Energy 6, 633-641 (2021); Joule 5, 958-974 (2021); Joule 4, 2675-2692 (2020); Energy & Environmental Science (2021) DOI: 10.1039/D1EE01440D; Advanced Materials 32, 2004979 (2020); Joule 4, 2675-2692 (2020)]. 
 Figure R4 . R4 Figure R4. Tauc plot of the perovskite films without and with o-PDEAI 2 passivation. 
 2 Figure R5 .( 4 )( 5 ) 2R545 Figure R5. Illustration of proposed energy band bending of the perovskite film with o-PDEAI 2 passivation. 
 Figure R6 . R6 Figure R6. Optimized structures for the adsorption of (a-b) ortho-, (c-d) meta-and (e-f) para cation on the perovskite surface. Left and right panel represents the adsorption through ammonium and phenyl group, respectively. 
 Figure R7 . R7 Figure R7. Molecule Structure of the organic halide salts. 
 Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 Structures of PDEAI 2 and subsequent formation of 2D perovskites. a The structures of the PDEAI 2 isomers. b XRD patterns of the films obtained from equimolar ratios of PDEAI 2 and PbI 2 . c Absorption and PL emission spectra of the films obtained from equimolar ratios of PDEAI 2 and PbI 2 . d Temperature-dependent PL images of the perovskite films treated with the different organic halide salts. e Intensity of the (002) reflections of the surficial 2D perovskites as a function of annealing temperature for the post-treated perovskite films. f GIWAXS images of the perovskite films following post-treatment. g Schematic illustration of p-PDEAI 2 and o-PDEAI 2 -assembled perovskite surface. 
 3 Fig. 2 2 4 322 Fig. 2 Theoretical modeling. a Optimized 2D perovskites structures incorporating o-PDEAI 2 , m-PDEAI 2 , and p-PDEAI 2 . b Optimized structures for the adsorption of 2D cations on the perovskite surface. The top insets indicate the maximum number of PDEA cations that can be adsorbed on a 2 × 2 perovskite surface. Schematic is based on the optimized coordinates of the corresponding structures and translating them in multiple numbers. For the o-PDEAI 2 structures, both the modes adsorb in a similar manner. 
 shows the normalized charge extraction kinetics under an applied voltage of 1 V. The o-PDEAI 2 -passivated device shows the fastest carrier extraction of <0.2 μs. (The partial signal drop during about 0.4-2.0 μs is caused by the sample recharging by the capacitance from the external circuit.) The control device shows similarly fast initial extraction, however, an additional slow extraction component is also observed. Significantly slower charge extraction from the m-PDEAI 2 -treated device is in good agreement with the PL decay data. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 Passivation layer-dependent device performance. a The cross-sectional scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of the PSC passivated with o-PDEAI 2 . b J-V characteristics of the champion device with o-PDEAI 2 measured in both reverse (red) and forward (orange) scanning directions (the inset shows its stabilized power output). c The statistics of PCE distribution for devices with and without o-PDEAI 2 . (Statistics from 20 samples for each condition). The solid lines denote the Gauss distribution fitting for the PCE statistics. d Voltage-dependent average PL lifetimes of the different devices. e Integrated charge extraction curves of devices. f Transient photocurrent decay in lateral sample geometry. 
 Fig. 4 2 6 42 Fig. 4 Characterization of the perovskite films and interface with o-PDEAI 2 . a KPFM images of perovskite films showing the electronic chemical potential. b Normalized PL intensity maps of the perovskite films illustrating the film homogeneity. c Normalized CL mapping images of the perovskite films. d High-resolution Pb 4f core-level XPS spectra of perovskite films. e Mott-Schottky plots of the devices revealing the interfacial charge density. f tDOS distribution in PSCs showing less trap densities after o-PDEAI 2 passivation. 
 Fig. 5 5 Fig. 5 Module performance and long-term stability of the PSCs. a Photograph of the fabricated perovskite solar module. b Schematic showing the interconnections of the module. c J-V characteristics of the champion perovskite solar module with an active area of 26.00 cm 2 . d Evolution of the PCEs for the unencapsulated devices exposed to a controlled relative humidity (RH) of 40-50% in the dark. e Evolution of the PCEs for the unencapsulated devices under constant heating at 85 °C in a nitrogen atmosphere. f XRD patterns of the perovskite films as a function of annealing time at constant 85 °C. g Maximum power point tracking (MPPT) for 1100 h of the unencapsulated devices under continuous light (100 mW cm -2 ) illumination at 25 °C in a nitrogen atmosphere. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 . Anal. calcd for C10H18I2N2: C 28.59; H 4.32; N 6.67; I 60.42; found: C 30.02; H 4.24; N 6.4. C10H18I2N2[M + ] exact mass = 419.96. MS (ESI) = 418.82. 
 C NMR (101 MHz, DMSO) δ 137.53, 129.06, 128.96, 127.13, 38.89, 32.94. Anal. calcd for C10H18I2N2: C 28.59; H 4.32; N 6.67; I 60.42; found: C 28.9; H 4.34; N 6.6. C10H18I2N2[M + ] exact mass = 419.96. MS (ESI) = 418.83. 
 Table 2 . Adsorption energies of the PEA and PDEA cations on perovskite surface considering both ethyl ammonium and phenyl adsorption modes. 2 Structures 2D perovskite Energy (eV) quasi-2D perovskite p-PDEAI2 -7.19 -0.76 m-PDEAI2 -7.22 -0.97 o-PDEAI2 -6.41 -0.59 Supplementary Structures -CH2CH2NH3 + Energy (eV) phenyl PEA -9.28 -9.90 p-PDEA -9.76 -10.04 m-PDEA -10.50 -9.51 o-PDEA -10.00 -9.53 Supplementary 
 Table 3 . Summary of the device performance for the control and PDEAI2-passivated (2 mg mL -1 ) devices. 3 Condition VOC (V) JSC (mA cm -2 ) FF PCE (%) Control 1.112±0.01 24.24±0.25 0.769±0.02 20.71±0.66 Best 1.135 24.49 0.790 21.94 p-PDEAI2 1.097±0.03 24.20±0.32 0.765±0.02 20.30±0.60 Best 1.127 24.34 0.770 21.09 m-PDEAI2 0.993±0.05 23.80±0.57 0.701±0.05 16.74±1.57 Best 1.079 23.55 0.750 19.63 o-PDEAI2 1.141±0.01 24.52±0.31 0.802±0.01 22.45±0.64 Best 1.157 24.75 0.835 23.92 Supplementary 
 Table 4 . Summary of the device performance with different PDEAI2 concentrations. 4 Condition Concentration (mg mL -1 ) VOC (V) JSC (mA cm -2 ) FF PCE (%) Control 0 1.135 24.49 0.790 21.94 1 1.129 24.31 0.766 21.05 2 1.127 24.34 0.770 21.09 p-PDEAI2 3 1.131 23.90 0.767 20.70 4 1.117 23.87 0.765 20.43 5 1.115 23.83 0.751 19.94 
 Table 5 . Summary of the fitting parameters of the perovskite films on glass substrates. 5 Condition A1 [%] τ1 [ns] A2 [%] τ2 [ns] Pure perovskite w/o HTL 32.5 14.3 67.5 284.4 Control with HTL 65.6 4.5 34.4 47.2 p-PDEAI2 with HTL 57.1 2.5 42.9 38.2 m-PDEAI2 with HTL 45.6 6.6 54.4 90.0 o-PDEAI2 with HTL 38.3 2.4 61.7 28.9 Supplementary 
 Table 6 . Overview of the reported perovskite solar modules so far. 6 Year Ref. Active Area (cm 2 ) Designated Area (cm 2 ) GFF (%) Number of Subcells JSC (mA•cm 2 ) VOC (V) FF (%) PCE (%) 4 - 33 93.4 17 1.15 18.19 72.1 15.3 5 8 - - 4 5.82 3.98 68 15.79 6 - 36.1 85 10 1.77 11.19 64.91 12.85 7 - 36 - 10 1.80 10.4 67.67 12.67 8 7.92 - 85.7 4 5.66 4.55 76.2 19.6 9 - 25.49 90.8 7 3.03 7.52 78.59 17.88 10 2 - 90 6 3.43 6.35 71 15.5 11 - 22.4 91 7 2.99 7.64 72.9 16.6 12 8 - - 4 5.63 4.17 71.11 16.69 13 36.6 - 90.3 7 3.04 7.44 71 16.06 14 42.8 - - 14 1.50 16.05 70.89 17.05 15 - 35.8 - 10 2.04 11.70 77.3 18.5 16 17.1 - - 6 3.80 6.88 78.1 20.42 17 27.14 - 92 8 3.08 8.71 75.41 20.2 This work 26 - 90.2 9 2.71 10.30 76.4 21.36 
 Table R1 . Summary of the device performance with different PDEAI 2 concentrations. R1 Condition Concentration (mg mL -1 ) V OC (V) J SC (mA cm -2 ) FF PCE (%) Control 0 1.135 24.49 0.790 21.94 1 1.129 24.31 0.766 21.05 2 1.127 24.34 0.770 21.09 p-PDEAI 2 3 1.131 23.90 0.767 20.70 4 1.117 23.87 0.765 20.43 5 1.115 23.83 0.751 19.94 1 1.098 23.77 0.762 19.87 2 1.079 23.55 0.750 19.63 m-PDEAI 2 3 1.063 24.14 0.720 18.48 4 1.061 23.95 0.703 17.91 5 1.048 22.04 0.708 16.32 1 1.147 24.64 0.822 23.23 2 1.157 24.75 0.835 23.92 o-PDEAI 2 3 1.153 24.60 0.832 23.63 4 1.151 24.46 0.816 22.98 5 1.148 24.37 0.799 22.36 (3) 
 For surface energy band measurements, the authors said that the downshift suggests a more p-type surface after o-PDEAI 2 treatment, which can improve hole extraction and cause band-bending for higher V OC values. However, from the UPS measurements (Supplementary Fig. 7), we could estimate the valence band of perovskite are -5.85 eV for control and ~6.15 eV for o-PDEAI 2 treatment. Thus, this valence band of perovskite seems to impair the hole extraction rather than improve hole extraction as ref 40. (Energy Environ. Sci. 13, 1222-1230 (2020).) compound. Author reply: Thank you for your valuable question. Instead of 2D perovskite passivation, which introduced a new large-bandgap perovskite material between the 3D perovskite and the hole transport material (HTM), in this work, o-PDEAI 2 passivation adjusted the electronic band structures while maintained the bandgap of the perovskite film (Figure R4). The UPS results revealed downshifted Fermi level (E F ) and valence band (E choline iodine, azetidinium, perhydropoly(silazane), 1-(4-bromophenyl)-6,7-diphenylimidazo[5,1,2-cd]indolizine, benzopentafulvalenes V ), indicating a less n-type surface after o-PDEAI 2 passivation. The downshifted E F and E V of passivated perovskite have been demonstrated to promote hole extraction by many passivators, such as theophylline, 
 Yi Yang 1, 2, 11  , Kasparas Rakstys 3 ✉ , Arup Mahata 4,5 , Marius Franckevicius 6 , Edoardo Mosconi 5 , Raminta Skackauskaite 3 , Bin Ding 2 , Keith G. Brooks 2 , Onovbaramwen Jennifer Usiobo 7 , Jean-Nicolas Audinot 7 , Hiroyuki Kanda 2 , Simonas Driukas 6 , Gabriele Kavaliauskaite 6 , Vidmantas Gulbinas 6 , Marc Dessimoz 2 , Vytautas Getautis 3 , Filippo De Angelis 4, 8, 9  , Yong Ding 1,2 ✉ , Songyuan Dai 1 ✉ , Paul J. Dyson 2 ✉ & Mohammad Khaja Nazeeruddin 2,10 ✉ ARTICLE Tuning structural isomers of phenylenediammonium to afford efficient and stable perovskite solar cells and modules Cheng Liu 1,2,11 , Statistical analysis of the device performance No Yes See Fig. 3c. 9. Long-term stability analysis Type of analysis, bias conditions and environmental Yes Fig. 5 d-g and Characterization part in Method. conditions For instance: illumination type, temperature, atmosphere No humidity, encapsulation method, preconditioning temperature cells via vapor deposition. Nano Energy 59, 619-625, Chemical Communications 54, 5879-5882, doi:10.1039/C8CC02801J (2018). 5 Yang, Y. et al. Universal approach toward high-efficiency two-dimensional perovskite solar cells via a vertical-rotation process. Energy & Environmental Science 13, 3093-3101, doi:10.1039/D0EE01833C (2020). 6 Yoo, J. J. et al. An interface stabilized perovskite solar cell with high stabilized efficiency and low voltage loss. Energy & Environmental Science 12, 2192-2199, doi:10.1039/C9EE00751B (2019). 7 Mahmud, M. A. et al. Double-Sided Surface Passivation of 3D Perovskite Film for High-Efficiency Mixed-Dimensional Perovskite Solar Cells. Advanced Functional Materials 30, 1907962, doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201907962 (2020). ). 2 Mahmud, M. A. et al. Origin of Efficiency and Stability Enhancement in High Performing Mixed Dimensional 2D 3D Perovskite Solar Cells: A Review. Advanced Functional Materials, 2009164 (2021). 3 Lin, D. et al. Stable and scalable 3D-2D planar heterojunction perovskite solar doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.03.014 (2019). 4 Huang, W., Sadhu, S., Sapkota, P. & Ptasinska, S. In situ identification of cation-exchange-induced reversible transformations of 3D and 2D perovskites. 
 State Key Laboratory of Alternate Electrical Power System with Renewable Energy Sources, North China Electric Power University, Beijing 102206, People's Republic of China. 2 Institute of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, EPFL VALAIS, Sion 1951, Switzerland. 3 Department of Organic Chemistry, Kaunas University of Technology, Radvilenu pl. 19, Kaunas 50254, Lithuania. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-26754-2 OPEN 1 4   CompuNet, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Via Morego 30, 16163 Genova, Italy. 5   Computational Laboratory for Hybrid/Organic Photovoltaics (CLHYO), Istituto CNR di Scienze e Tecnologie Chimiche "Giulio Natta" (CNR-SCITEC), Via Elce di Sotto 8, 06123 Perugia, Italy. 6   Department of Molecular Compound Physics, Center of Physical Sciences and Technology, Sauletekio av. 3, LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania. 7   Advanced Instrumentation for Nano-Analytics (AINA), Materials Research and Technology Department, Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology (LIST), L-4422 Belvaux, Luxembourg. 8   Department of Chemistry, Biology and Biotechnology, University of Perugia, Via Elce di Sotto 8, 06123 Perugia, Italy. 9   Department of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University, P.O. Box 1664 Al Khobar 31952, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 10   Department of Materials Science and Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 11   These authors contributed equally: Cheng Liu, Yi Yang. ✉ email: kasparas.rakstys@ktu.lt; dingy@ncepu.edu.cn; sydai@ncepu.edu.cn; paul.dyson@epfl.ch; mdkhaja.nazeeruddin@epfl.ch NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2021) 12:6394 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-26754-2 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications 1 1234567890():,; 
			 Reporting summary. Further information on research design is available in the Nature Research Reporting Summary linked to this article.