Paper #: 42
Passivation Mechanism Exploiting Surface Dipoles Affords High-Performance Perovskite Solar Cells
The employment of 2D perovskites is a promising approach to tackling the stability and voltage issues inherent in perovskite solar cells. It remains unclear, however, whether other perovskites with different dimensionalities have the same effect on efficiency and stability. Here, we report the use of quasi-3D azetidinium lead iodide (AzPbI 3 ) as a secondary layer on top of the primary 3D perovskite film that results in significant improvements in the photovoltaic parameters. Remarkably, the utilization of AzPbI 3 leads to a new passivation mechanism due to the presence of surface dipoles resulting in a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 22.4%. The opencircuit voltage obtained is as high as 1.18 V, which is among the highest reported to date for single junction perovskite solar cells, corresponding to a voltage deficit of 0.37 V for a band gap of 1.55 eV.
■ INTRODUCTION High-performance perovskite solar cells (PSCs) with efficiencies exceeding 20% hold considerable promise in photoelectric energy conversion.  [1] [2] [3] [4]  However, PSCs have yet to reach a suitable level of technological readiness for large-scale production.  5, 6  Improvements in the efficiency and stability of halide PSCs are still needed,  [7] [8] [9]  and whereas many approaches have been used to improve the stability and performance of PSCs, the application of passivation agents is among the most promising approaches.  10, 11  Grain boundary passivation of perovskites by inorganic or organic agents enhances both the stability and performance of PSCs.  [12] [13] [14]  Moreover, these agents not only act as a protective thin layer on the perovskite film to passivate the surface defects and reduce intergrain boundary recombination but also protect the perovskite film against moisture, leading to increased stability and durability.  [15] [16] [17]  Passivating agents can be divided into two main categories: first, passivation agents that do not form any new perovskite layer but modify the grain surface (e.g., cations such as potassium,  18  sodium,  19  guanidinium,  20  imidazolium,  21  and choline  22  and neutral compounds such as PCBM  23  and pyridine)  24  and second, passivation agents that form an additional perovskite layer on top of primary perovskite. In the latter case, 2D perovskites were used exclusively as the source of the secondary layer.  11  However, 2D perovskites have the disadvantage that their performance is highly dependent on the orientation of the 2D perovskite on the primary perovskite layer. In other words, the existence of an insulating organic layer causes charges to be confined in the inorganic layer; therefore, charge transport from the bulk perovskite to the 2D perovskite layer depends on their relative orientation.  25  The Az cation previously showed improvements in the efficiency of methylammonium lead iodide-based perovskite when employed in the bulk.  26  Here, we demonstrate a highly desirable modification effect via the passivation of surface and grain boundaries by employing an azetidinium lead iodide (AzPbI 3 ) layer using a secondary perovskite growth (SPG) technique to introduce an additional perovskite phase at the hole-transporting material (HTM)/perovskite interface. The SPG technique involves two steps: deposition of a primary perovskite layer followed by the introduction of the secondary perovskite (by deposition of AzI dissolved in isopropanol). AzPbI 3 has a pseudo-3D structure made from interlinked 1D perovskites. This structure advantageously coats the perovskite surface and enhances photovoltaic characteristics such as the open-circuit voltage (Voc), fill factor (FF), and photocurrent as well as the stability. 
 ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION AzI was deposited via spin coating at different concentrations (3, 5, and 7 mg in 1 mL of dry isopropanol) on the primary perovskite layer composed of Cs 0.05 MA 0.1 FA 0.85 PbI 2.7 Br 0.3 . Xray diffraction (XRD) studies of the films do not show any significant change following SPG treatment (Figure  S1 ), which is not unexpected due to the small amount of AzI employed. To obtain a more detailed understanding of the surface structure, the film was probed by grazing-incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering (GIWAXS), indicating that unreacted PbI 2 on the surface of perovskite has reacted with AzI to form AzPbI 3 (Figure  1a, b ). The newly formed peak at 2θ ≈ 11.5 corresponds to the (101) face of the AzPbI 3 structure previously reported.  27  Additionally, a new peak at 720 nm was observed in the PL spectra of the SPG-based films (Figure  1c ), which is also in agreement with the expected emission from AzPbI 3 perovskite single crystals.  27  To complement these data, cathodoluminescence (CL) was employed (Figure  1d ), confirming that PbI 2 is absent from the SPG-based film (no emission detected at around 500 nm for the SPG-based film) but present in the control film (shown in blue). Notably, an emission at 710 nm was detected in the SPG-based film, which is due to the presence of AzPbI 3 , and it is shown in green. However, the background 710 nm emission in the control film is mainly due to the tail of the Cs 0.05 MA 0.1 FA 0.85 PbI 2.7 Br 0.3 emission at ca. 770 nm (measured at 15 K, so the bandgap is increased  28  ). The dark areas (from both 710 and 770 nm emissions) belong to relatively nonemitting areas due to the surface roughness. SEM images of the control film and films containing different concentrations of AzI are shown in Figure  2a . As the AzI concentration increases to 5 mg/mL, a layer of AzPbI 3 was observed to coat the surface of perovskite. Although the crystal dispersion and the size of grains remain uniform, the SPG-based film with 5 mg/mL AzI showed a unique surface microstructure in which the surfaces of grains are completely covered with AzPbI 3 . The unique microstructure results in an improvement of the perovskite layer stability (see below). However, as the concentration of AzI increases to 7 mg/mL, small grains and a thick layer of AzPbI 3 or AzI form on the surface, which detrimentally interferes with the efficiency of the device (Figure  S2 ). The photovoltaic performance of the devices (fabricated as shown in Figure  2b ) containing the secondary AzPbI 3 perovskite film was studied under A.M. 1.5 and compared to the control device. The 5 mg SPG-based devices give an optimum photovoltaic performance (Table  S1 ). The mean  device power conversion efficiency (PCE) increases from 19.52% in the control to 22.03% for 5 mg of SPG-based devices (Figure  3a ). The photocurrent hysteresis of the SPGbased devices was negligible compared to that of the control solar cells (Figure  S3 ). The mean open-circuit voltage (Voc) of the SPG-treated perovskite films is higher than that of the control film (1.14 vs 1.07 V for the 5 mg SPG and control devices, respectively, see Figure  3b ). An open circuit voltage that is as high as 1.18 V was also achieved. Moreover, the average fill factor (FF) was enhanced to 79% for the 5 mg SPG devices versus 76% for the control (Figure  3c ). Surprisingly, the average current density also increases as a result of the SPG treatment (24.55 vs 23.91 mA/cm 2 for the 5 mg SPG and control devices, respectively, see Figure  3d ) as reflected in the external quantum efficiency (EQE) measurements (Figure  3e ). The EQE data suggests a better charge extraction for the SPGbased devices. A similar effect has been observed for devices passivated with 1D perovskite nanowires.  29  High concentrations of AzI (7 mg/mL) result in an increase in the series resistance and thus lower FF (Figure  S4 ). The best-performing SPG cell with a PCE of 22.39% has a short circuit current (J sc ) of 24.7 mA cm  2  , an open-circuit voltage of 1.14 V, and a fill factor of 79.5% with a stabilized efficiency of 22% (Figure  3f  and Figure  S5 ). The aging of devices was monitored for unencapsulated control and treated devices under 1 sun illumination and a nitrogen atmosphere with a constant load of 200 Ω for more than 1000 h at ∼52 °C. The 5 mg SPG device retained ∼85% of its initial PCE (Figure  3g ), whereas the control device retained 47% of its initial efficiency. The conjugated acid of secondary amine azetidine (pK a = 11.29) is a much weaker acid than methylammonium (pK a = 9.25) (Scheme 1). Therefore, decomposition via deprotonation of the ammonium group, which is reported as a major instability factor, is much slower.  30, 31  It is likely that the application of AzI stabilizes the primary perovskite surface due to the formation of an AzIterminated instead of PbX 2 -terminated surface.  32  Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) was used to further study the films (Figure  4a, b ). The 5 mg/mL SPG-based film has a higher work function than the reference, which is reflected in contact potential difference (CPD) values (-368 ± 20 vs -237 ± 40 mV for SPG-based and control films, respectively). The CPD value is different from that of AzPbI 3 (+108 mV, Figure  S6 ), which suggests that the difference in the potential between the control and the SPG-based film mainly originated from the perovskite layer. This may be due to the dipole moment effect of Az on the surface of perovskite.  33  The crystal edge of perovskite will be covered by Az cations in a way in which the ammonium group of Az will form hydrogen bonds with the perovskite lattice. Therefore, an assembly of Az cations will shift the work function due to the electrical field produced by Az cations (Figure  4c ). Additionally, ultraviolet photoelectron spectros-   S1  for the values with standard deviations for the photovoltaic performance parameters derived from I-V curves. (e) EQE measurements for the SPG-based and control devices. (f) I-V curves of champion SPG cell versus control device and evolution of the champion cell's efficiency over time. (g) Stability evolution of the perovskite solar cells. Unencapsulated devices were kept under 1 sun illumination and 52 °C under a nitrogen atmosphere. 
 Scheme 1. pK a Comparison of Azetidinium and Methylammonium Journal of the American Chemical Society copy (UPS) was employed to confirm the KPFM data. As shown in Figure  5a ,b, the work function of the SPG-based films is higher than that for the control film, and this shift can indicate the formation of an electrical field due to the dipoles on the surface of the perovskite (Figure  5c ). The effect of surface dipoles on the work function is a wellknown concept in the fields of organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) and organic photovoltaics.  34, 35  Other possibilities such as band bending and the formation of a p-type perovskite are unlikely explanations for the work-function shift due to the absence of dopants at the surface, which act as electron acceptors, and a low concentration of charge carriers in the absence of light. (The experiments were conducted at the minimum light intensity.) The electrical field drives the holes to the HTM and repels the electrons back to the perovskite to find their way to the electron transport material (ETM) (Figure  5d ). Therefore, less recombination occurs at the perovskite and HTM interface, which results in the passivation of the traps at the interface. The electrical field causes better charge extraction and higher voltages of the SPG-based PSCs. Furthermore, time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) measurements showed the higher carrier lifetime for SPG-based films (Figure  6 ). The TRPL data reveal a longer lifetime of charge carriers and therefore the reduction of trap-assisted recombination in the perovskite layer of the 5 mg/mL SPGbased film (from τ = 1.3 to >2.8 μs for the control and the SPG-based films, respectively), which along with the higher V oc of the SPG-based devices suggests the passivation role of the AzPbI 3 layer. Due to the electrical field produced by the dipole moment of the azetidinium cations on the surface of the perovskite, electrons will be pushed away from the interface and therefore the nonradiative recombination will be reduced. Thus, the presence of dipoles with the correct orientation can result in the passivation.    The AzPbI 3 structure was made according to Riccardo et al.  27  Remarkably, the presence of AzPbI 3 did not result in reduced conductivity of the resulting devices, which is presumably due to the interwoven structure of the AzPbI 3 layer (Figure  7 ) that maintains the current through the film. In other words, the Pb-I-Pb bonds that connect the primary and secondary structures allow charge to flow between them. This results in a nonconfined charge within the AzPbI 3 structure and, therefore, efficient hole transport to the HTM. 
 ■ CONCLUSIONS We hereby demonstrate a means of fabricating efficient and stable perovskite solar cells by employing AzPbI 3 as a dual passivating and protecting layer. The engineered perovskite structure exhibits high photovoltaic performance due to the presence of surface dipoles, resulting in a unique mechanism of passivation. Our results suggest that employing different dimensionalities of perovskites is key to enhancing the stability and efficiency of perovskites. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT 
 * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at  https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jacs.0c01704 .  
 Materials and methods, Figures S1-S6 Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (a) GIWAXS spectra of control and SPG-based films. (b) In close-up GIWAXS spectra, the AzPbI 3 and PbI 2 peaks are indicated with * and #, respectively. (c) PL curve of the SPG-based films (showing an additional peak at around 720 nm). (d) CL images of control (top) and 5 mg SPG-based (bottom) films. The emission wavelengths from left to right are 710 (green), 500 (blue), and 770 (red) nm. The secondary electron images are shown on the right. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) Difference in the surface morphology of films. SEM images from the surface of control and 5 mg of SPG-based films. (b) Schematic illustration of the SPG-based device. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. (a-d) Average photovoltaic parameters of the devices containing the 5 mg SPG-treated (34 devices) and control films (31 devices). See TableS1for the values with standard deviations for the photovoltaic performance parameters derived from I-V curves. (e) EQE measurements for the SPG-based and control devices. (f) I-V curves of champion SPG cell versus control device and evolution of the champion cell's efficiency over time. (g) Stability evolution of the perovskite solar cells. Unencapsulated devices were kept under 1 sun illumination and 52 °C under a nitrogen atmosphere. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. (a) KPFM images of the control (top) and SPG-based film (bottom) with their corresponding AFM topology images. (b) Potential profiles along the indicated line. (c) Schematic illustration of the Az arrangement on the perovskite lattice. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. UPS data of the (a) control film and the (b) SPG-based film. (c) Schematic energy-level diagrams of control and SPG-based films. (d) Schematic illustration of band bending due to the dipoles on the surface of perovskite. 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. TRPL decay profile of the SPG-based versus control films. 
 Figure 7 . 7 Figure 7. Interlinked AzPbI 3 chains are responsible for conductivity in this layer. I atoms are purple, and N atoms from Az are shown in blue.The AzPbI 3 structure was made according to Riccardo et al. 27   
 , and Table S1 (PDF) ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Authors Paul J. Dyson -Institute of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland; orcid.org/0000-0003-3117-3249; Email: paul.dyson@epfl.ch Anders Hagfeldt -Institute of Chemical Sciences and Engineering, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland; orcid.org/0000-0001-6725-8856; Email: anders.hagfeldt@epfl.chS1A passivation mechanism exploiting surface dipoles affords highperformance perovskite solar cells 
			 https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01704 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 11428-11433 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on November 8, 2024 at 06:40:34 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01704 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 11428-11433