Paper #: 428_1
Title: Export Citation
2D layered halide perovskite for field-effect transistors
I. INTRODUCTION In recent decades, halide perovskites have received much attention for use in energy and optoelectronics applications.  [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8]  Owing to their exceptional optoelectronic characteristics, which include tunable bandgaps, long charge carrier diffusion lengths, weakly bound excitons, and large light absorption coefficients,  [9] [10] [11] [12] [13]  metal halide perovskites (MHPs) have made significant research advancement in various arenas such as solar cells, 14-17 lasers, 18-20 light-emitting diodes (LEDs),  [21] [22] [23] [24]  lithium-ion batteries,  [25] [26] [27]  sensors,  [28] [29] [30]  and photodetectors.  [31] [32] [33] [34]  Specifically, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of perovskite solar cells has increased dramatically over the past decade, from 3.8% 35 to 25.7%, 36 and perovskite-based LEDs have attained a 21.6% external quantum efficiency.  37  However, halide perovskites have surfaced as potentially fruitful contenders for active components in fieldeffect transistors (FETs) on account of their remarkable diffusion lengths, high mobilities, and tunable band gaps, in addition to their straightforward manufacturing methods.  [38] [39] [40]  Recent research endeavors in this field have concentrated on perovskite-based FETs in diverse configurations, including thin flakes, polycrystalline/nanostructured thin films, and single crystals, in addition to several dimensions, including two-dimensional (2D) layered samples and threedimensional (3D) polycrystalline/crystalline films.  [41] [42] [43] [44] [45]  However, in comparison to the research efforts devoted to their application as photovoltaic devices, their use in transistors is still in its infancy, and hence greater attention is required to translate the potential of these materials into technological applications in the near future. Furthermore, lacking a comprehensive understanding of charge transport behavior, ion migration, and low stability remains fundamental challenges that hinder the progress and commercialization of transistors in the future.  [46] [47] [48]  There is broad consensus that investigating field-effect transistor (FET) devices utilizing perovskites can enhance our understanding of the photophysical dynamics and charge transport within these materials, in addition to facilitating the development of novel device functionalities. The investigation into perovskite FETs is propelled and bolstered by the comparatively high anticipated charge carrier mobility and the straightforward processing methods that enable economical production. In methylammonium lead iodide (MAPbI 3 ) based 3D perovskite, ab initio calculations predicted  49  high charge carrier mobilities l ¼ 1000 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and also supported experiments like optical-pump-terahertz-probe photoconductivity spectroscopy by Valverde-Ch avez et al.  50  Despite these expectations, there is still room for improvement of the perovskite FET performances that feature mobility values for high-quality single crystals ranging from 50 to 10 À5 cm 2 V À1 s À1 in non-optimized thin films.  [51] [52] [53] [54] [55] [56]  As a result, there are still major challenges to overcome in the development of high-performance perovskite transistors. Therefore, more research in this area would be timely and valuable importance, with the aim of understanding the operating processes and establishing methods for building future optoelectronic applications with better performance. In recent years, two-dimensional (2D) organic-inorganic hybrid perovskite materials like (C 6 H 5 C 2 H 4 NH 3 ) 2 SnI 4 ((PEA) 2 SnI 4 ) have been regarded a viable contender for field-effect transistor applications thanks to their suppressed ion migration due to strong van der Waals contacts and intercalated spacer ligands.  57, 58  Initially, (PEA) 2 SnI 4 was found to be suited for FET in view of its carrier mobility (0.62 c cm 2 V À1 s À1 ) and relatively high on/off ratio  (10 4  ).  59  Following this initial work, Adachi et al. optimized the mobility up to 15 cm 2 V À1 s À1 through buffer layer alteration, bringing the attention of the scientific community as a suitable candidate for FETs.  39  The challenge of achieving consistent and high-performance halide perovskite FETs at room temperature has hindered our understanding of electronic charge transport in these materials, despite their remarkable advantages and potential applications. Other challenges to the creation of highperformance halide perovskite FETs include the optimization of charge injection at the metal/halide contacts, a thorough understanding of the role played by the gate dielectric/halide perovskite interface, ambient instability (sensitivity to heat, light, and air), and long-term operational instability. The aim of this review is to summarize the progress to date in 2D halide perovskite FET fabrication and performance, as well as the techniques for improving their performance. First, the basics of FETs are introduced, including device architectures and extracting some physical device parameters. Following that, the manufacturing and performance of FETs based 2D halide perovskites are summarized, as well as strategies for improving the performance of these FETs, such as film morphology/structure and interface engineering. Finally, conclusions are provided on the comprehensive review and views of 2D halide perovskite FETs. The first research article based on 2D halide perovskite FETs was published as early as 1999.  59  However, up to 2004, only a few research groups had studied them in FETs, but broader studies considering their integration in FETs have not been performed until 2016. To the best of our knowledge, not more than a few tens of articles on 2D halide perovskites FETs have been published, and they are presented in Fig.  1 . 
 II. FUNDAMENTALS OF 2D HALIDE PEROVSKITES A. Crystal structure and electronic properties of 2D MHPs There is an emergence of hybrid halide perovskites as a revolutionary material in the semiconductor arena, with successful Applied Physics Reviews REVIEW pubs.aip.org/aip/are applications in high-performance photovoltaics in the last decade. This renaissance has included massive and extensive research on threedimensional (3D) perovskites represented by CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 (MAPbI 3 ). Generally, 3D metal halide perovskite (MHP) crystal structures can be described by the formula ABX 3 . In this formula, the A-site consists of monovalent cations, which can be either organic [such as methylammonium (CH 3 NH 3 þ , MA) or formamidinium (HC(NH 2 ) 2 þ , FA þ )], inorganic (such as Cs þ or Rb þ ) or a combination of organic and inorganic cations. The B site consists of divalent metal cations, typically Pb 2 þ , Sn 2 þ , and Ge 2 þ , or a combination of these metals. The X represents monovalent halide anions, such as Cl À , Br À , and I À , or a combination of these anions.  60  In the crystal structure of a three-dimensional MHP, an A cation may occupy the space between the [BX 6 ] 4-octahedrons. The symmetry and electrical properties of MHP compounds are influenced by the B-X bond of the inorganic framework, which in turn is determined by the size of the A cation. Thus, as long as the crystal structure of ABX 3 is preserved, the electrical properties can be adjusted by changing the elements and relative concentrations in MHPs. In contrast, now the new wave of halide perovskites has shifted to lower dimensionality, with two-dimensional (2D) or quasi-2D perovskite derivatives. This expansion offers even greater tunability and excellent photophysical properties in a more diverse subgroup of semiconducting hybrids. 2D perovskites exhibit a unique structural and compositional dimension, denoted as A 0 A nÀ1 B n X 3nþ1 , where A 0 and A represent organic cations, B represents a metal, X represents a halide, and the thickness of the perovskite layers is determined by the integer n. Despite its apparent simplicity, dimensional reduction provides access to a wide range of tailored functionality from organicinorganic hybrid materials and unprecedented structural complexity, allowing optoelectronic properties to be fine-tuned.  61  The presence of organic cations in 2D hybrid halide perovskites acts as an insulating barrier, restricting the movement of charge carriers to two dimensions, but they also represent the electromagnetic (dielectric) environment that can be chemically designed and will ultimately influence the physics of exciton dissociation and charge/spin/heat transport in such materials. A spontaneous bottom-up self-assembly process leads to the formation of a crystallographically structured 2D multiple-quantumwell (MQW) electronic structure. This has been attributed to the unique arrangement of the alternating organic and inorganic layers. In 2D perovskites, the size limits for the A-site are significantly lower than in 3D perovskites because the cations have to fit into the space between the layers. The suitability of a cation as a spacer in 2D perovskites is determined by its hydrogen bonding ability, stereochemical configuration, and space-filling capacity. Many cations can fulfill these criteria and can be understood that the use of 2D perovskite gives a wide range of organic-inorganic hybrid materials with tunable functions, but it also results in an unequaled level of structural complexity. There are three types of 2D perovskites based on the direction of the slice that crosses the three-dimensional inorganic framework before the spacer cation is added:h100i-, h110i-, and h111i-oriented structures (Fig.  2 ).  62  The 2D perovskite with theh100iorientation exhibits greater tolerance for organic components compared to the h110i and h111i orientation structures, thus increasing compositional diversity. Additional subdivided structures have been proposed for 100-oriented 2D perovskites, such as the Ruddlesden-Popper (RP) type, the Dion-Jacobson (DJ) type, and the alternating cations in the interlayer (ACI) type (Fig.  2 ).  62  For the h100i-oriented 2D perovskites, it can be seen that the charge and number of spacing cations are the main determinants of the structure type. Based on the intermolecular van der Waals interactions, the spacer cation layer in RP consists of monovalent ammonium cations. The inorganic octahedral plates on either side of the spacer cation layer showed (1/2, 1/2) in-plane displacement when an octahedral unit was misaligned.  63  To date, several spacer cations for the RP phase perovskite have been investigated, including, among others, BA, PEA, and amyl ammonium.  64, 65  The DJ phase was more stable than the RP phase due to the presence of a diammonium spacer molecule (A 0 ) with two ammonium cations at each end. A combination of ionic and covalent bonding allowed two layers of the inorganic slabs to be bonded without gaps at the ends. The octahedrons positioned above and below the spacer cation layer often show a nondisplacement (0, 0) in the DJ phase structure, resulting in a precise alignment on top of each other. The smaller organic cations (MA þ / FA þ ) and spacer cations are alternatively organized with the layers in the ACI phase structure, implying that the "perovskite-type" cations at position A are present both in the cage and the spacer layer. Guanidine (GA þ ) is the unique cation that may currently be used to create the ACI phase, indicating that small spacer cations (MA þ , FA þ ) with sizes similar to "perovskite-type" cations are necessary for the development of the ACI phase.  66, 67  As previously stated, 2D perovskite results in very appealing properties due to alternating layers of organic and inorganic units. 2D halide perovskite MQWs are able to stabilize excitons, which can be observed even at room temperature. Particularly exciting for the discovery of new fundamental physics are the 2D halide MQWs 68,69 and opened up effective room temperature optoelectronic applications.  70  Pure 2D perovskites have a greater bandgap (>2.3 eV) than the 3D ones, while the mixeddimensional perovskite, also called the quasi-2D perovskite when a low-n number of inorganic slabs is contemplated, presents intermediate values between the two. The quantum confinement effect, which is largely determined by the value of n, has a significant impact on the optoelectronic properties of 2D MHPs. The optical bandgap of 2D (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 decreases from 2.33 to 2.00 eV as the number of inorganic layers n increases from 1 to 3.  71  The structure exhibits a resemblance to the 3D perovskite when n ¼ 1, but when n ¼ 1, it transforms into a precise quantum well, consisting of a single atomic layer of inorganic slabs separated by organic chains. When comparing 3D MHPs with 2D analogues, it is observed that the 2D analogues have reduced ion migration because the large organic cations are less mobile and the organic interlayers separate the inorganic layers. In addition, the 2D analogues have improved moisture resistance because the long organic hydrophobic chains shield the inorganic [MX 6 ] 4-octahedrons from water vapor.  72  The ion migration in halide perovskite is dependent on the activation energy (E a ), which is influenced by many factors, including the temperature, radius, and charge of the ions, the hopping distance, film quality, and the crystal structure of the material. For layered perovskites, the E a seems to be proportional to the decrease in the inorganic layer number; therefore, an ideal single layer 2D structure is much more stable than the 2D/3D one.  73  Ion migration can further be retarded in mixed 2D/3D perovskites by A cation engineering, for example, using a more rigid Cs cation with respect to inorganic one, which leads to a shrinkage of the unit cell and, thus, increases the activation energy for halide ion migration. In contrast to the extensive discussion and investigation of the Pb 2þ -based halide perovskites, the exploration of ion migration dynamics in tin (Sn 2þ )-halide perovskites has only recently commenced.  74  Intriguingly, an increasing number of findings suggest that this less harmful perovskite family shows less severe and, in some cases, negligible ion migration under an electric field or illumination.  [75] [76] [77]   
 B. Synthesis of 2D MHPs Halide perovskites are crystallized by a process involving nucleation and growth mechanisms. Nucleation of perovskite crystals in wet chemical synthesis is initiated when the precursors are more concentrated than is normally possible in a solution. The degree of supersaturation, temperature, and surface free energy all affect the rate of crystal formation. The symmetry and structure of the nucleus determine the final shape and size of the halide perovskites. Various parameters such as temperature, reaction time, precursors, ligands, solvents, additives, and other factors influence the symmetry and development of the perovskite nuclei. The resulting crystals can either be in the bulk state or be confined to the nanoscale. The effect of these parameters on the dimensions and structure of halide perovskites is discussed in more detail here. 
 Most common crystal growth techniques Layered 2D halide perovskites, such as (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Sn 3nþ1 , are synthesized by gradually cooling their precursors in hydrohalic acid.  78  The thickness of the perovskite layer can be precisely controlled by the manipulation of the ratio of the small A-site cation to the large organic spacer cation. In order to produce 2D halide perovskites with the required thickness, it is necessary to use spacer cations as a limiting reagent. To prepare (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 PbnI 3nþ1 perovskites, the stoichiometric amounts of PbI 2 and MAI are dissolved in the HI solvent. The mixture is then refluxed using half the stoichiometric amount of BAI, and 2D RP perovskites of the specified thickness are formed when cooled to room temperature. Using diammonium spacer cations, it is very difficult to synthesize 2D halide perovskites with n > 1, because the precipitation of the monolayer 2D perovskites with n ¼ 1 prevents the crystallization of the denser layers.  79  Due to the diammonium cations' superior capacity to form hydrogen bonds as compared to monoammonium cations, n ¼ 1, 2D halide perovskites have a low solubility in HI. In order to successfully create 2D DJ layered perovskites with n > 1, Kanatzidis and co-workers used a saturated solution of Pb 2þ and MA þ in HI at its boiling point after a gradual cooling.  80  Cinquino et al. 81 discovered a unique method to precisely adjust the n-value by strategically incorporating potassium iodide. This substance was observed to regulate the level of supersaturation in the precursor solution without becoming a component of the final products. Chen and his coworkers used this synthesis method for providing an understanding of the intrinsic carrier transport behavior of 2D organolead halide perovskites (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 single crystals (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3).  43  High-quality exfoliated 2D perovskite crystals are used to fabricate the FETs, and the characteristic output and transfer curves are measured from individual single crystal flakes at different temperatures. The electrical properties of all these 2D RP single crystals were mainly influenced by the unipolar n-type transport. The mobility of these perovskites and the transport behavior of these perovskites are strongly dependent on the n-value. The mobility values for n ¼ 1, 2, and 3 based FETs are 2 Â 10 À3 , 8.3 Â 10 À2 , and 1.25 cm 2 V À1 s À1 at 77 K, respectively. Antisolvent vapor assisted crystallization (AVC) can also be used to synthesize monolayer thick 2D halide perovskite bulk crystals.  82, 83  This technique is more frequently used to create 3D halide perovskites, where the precursors that are dissolved in c-butyrolactone, dimethyl formamide (DMF), or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) slowly vaporize a highly volatile antisolvent like dichloromethane (DCM) or chlorobenzene to form micro to millimeter-sized crystals.  84  Anti-solvents induce supersaturation, leading to crystal formation in the perovskite phase, by reducing solubility in solution. In a typical synthesis, solvents like DMF or c-butyrolactone are used to dissolve the precursors RNH 3 X and PbX 2 (where X is Br or I and RNH 3 is an organic spacer cation) with proper stoichiometry. This precursor solution is transferred to a smaller container, which is placed inside a larger container with DCM or chlorobenzene as an anti-solvent. The 2D halide perovskites are then crystallized by covering the entire system and leaving it to stand for a few hours to a few days.  82, 83  The antisolvent vapor-assisted capping crystallization (AVCC) is a further modification of the AVC process that can be used to quickly crystallize layered 2D halide perovskites, often within a few minutes. In this procedure, the precursor solution is placed on top of a small container containing the antisolvent, which is inserted between two glass slides inside a larger container. In addition to rapid crystallization, the AVCC process has an advantage over AVC; it has the ability to produce 2D halide perovskites with multiple layers where the number of layers n > 1, which is not possible with AVC.  83   
 Growth on substrate Halide perovskites can be grown as atomically thin films on silicon or glass substrates, and this is achieved by the evaporation of their precursor solution.  [85] [86] [87]  The rate of solvent evaporation and the specific interaction with the substrate have a significant effect on the kinetics of the formation of crystals on the substrate. The precursor solution is deposited onto the substrate using spin coating, drop casting, spray coating, or chemical vapor deposition (CVD).  88  A multiinch lead based 2D halide perovskite crystal formation is shown by Liu et al. on a glass substrate [Fig.  3(a) ].  89  They prepared (PEA) 2 PbI 4 precursor solution (2.12 M) by dissolving PbI 2 and C 6 H 5 C 2 H 4 NH 3 I (1:2 molar ratio) in c-butyrolactone (GBL) at 80 C with active mixing for 24 hours; before crystal formation, the fluid was filtered. To facilitate the development of the (PEA) 2 PbI 4 single crystal, a little amount of the produced precursor solution was carefully placed onto a glass slide substrate (or a flexible plastic substrate, namely, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) substrate) that had been heated to 80 C, as shown in step 1. Next, a second glass slide with reduced lateral dimensions was positioned on top of the precursor solution drop. In step 2, the solution was compressed in order to distribute it evenly between two slides. A noteworthy observation is that a portion of the precursor solution was extruded toward the periphery of the upper slide. The third step involves ensuring that the temperature inside a closed oven remains at 80 C. The evaporation of the precursor solution along the border of the top slide was effectively regulated at a uniform pace in this scenario. Within around two hours, nucleation and crystallization took place along the periphery of the upper slide, as indicated by the presence of lustrous crystallites. The temperature was gradually reduced from 80 to 30 C at a rate of 1 C per hour, resulting in the growth of the (PEA) 2 PbI 4 single crystal between the slides (step 4). To prevent the development of crystallites in the solution, the precursor was produced at a temperature of 80 C. The concentration of (PEA) 2 PbI 4 in GBL was carefully maintained at 2.12M to ensure that the solution was unsaturated and free from any particles that could act as nucleation seeds. Yang et al. have successfully synthesized single crystalline (BA) 2 PbBr 4 perovskites with a thickness of one to a few unit cells, 87 by employing a drop casting technique on a Si/SiO 2 substrate at an appropriate temperature. To control the 2D perovskite sheet thickness, the precursors were dissolved in a ternary co-solvent of DMF-chlorobenzene-acetonitrile. Chlorobenzene enhances crystallization by reducing the solubility of the halide perovskites in DMF, while rapid evaporation of acetonitrile enhances the development and expansion of ultrathin 2D perovskite films. Chen and collaborators 90 used this process to prepare ultra-thin (BA )2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n Br 3nþ1 perovskite films by intercalation of (BA) 2 PbBr 4 films with MABr, by extending the reaction time from 2 to 60 min, and the thickness was tuned from n ¼ 2 to n ¼ 1. The structural transition takes place when MA þ cations are inserted between the layers of (BA) 2 PbBr 4 . This insertion results in the release of C 4 H 9 NH 3 Br and the fusion of [PbBr 6 ] 4-octahedrons. Another highly efficient technique for producing uniform and high-quality 2D halide perovskite film is spin coating or drop casting [Fig.  3(b) ].  91, 92  2D halide perovskites are produced by spin-coating precursors onto glass/ITO substrates after dissolution in DMF or DMSO in one or more steps. After that, these substrates require ambient drying or annealing. To produce high-quality (PEA) 2 (MA) 2 Pb 3 I 10 perovskite films, Karunadasa and co-workers have developed a one-step spin-coating process, which shows exceptional light-absorbing layers for solar cells.  86  There is a significant relationship between the kinetics of crystallization during film formation and the selective thickness of two-dimensional materials. In addition, precursor stoichiometry and organic cation size are key factors in this relationship.  93  A solution processed one step spin-coating thin film based on (PEA) 2 SnI 4 was optimized by Chen et al.  42  for visible light ultrasensitive FETs [Fig.  3(c) ]. In this work, they prepared a thin film of about 130 nm thickness on a heavily n-doped Si wafer with a 300 nm SiO 2 dielectric layer. The device showed a very high photoresponse to visible light signals of different wavelengths. The mobility value is ranging between 0.76 and 1.2 cm 2 V À1 s À1 . On the same material, in the year 2018, Wang et al.  45  used ferroelectric polymer poly(vinylidene fluoride-trifluoroethylene) (P(VDF-TrFE)) as a dielectric layer on a one step spin coated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 thin film. The channel length is 100 mm, and the width is 4000 mm. The substrate is a heavily p-doped Si wafer covered by a 285 nm SiO 2 layer. Initially, the pattern gate Au electrode was vacuum deposited on the surface of the substrate, followed by deposition of a ferroelectric polymer layer, P(VDF-TrFE), on top of this using a spincoating method. In the "up" and "down" polarization states, the device achieved a high photoconversion ratio (>100) and a short photoresponse time (50 ms). In addition, the device also exhibited a high sensitivity of 14.57 A W À1 and a high detectivity of 1.74 Â 10 12 Jones under the "up" polarization state with an illumination intensity of 21 lW cm À2 . The field effect hole mobility is about 0.04 cm 2 V À1 s À1 in this system. 
 Mechanical exfoliation The utilization of mechanical exfoliation has been promoted in the investigation of atomically thin two-dimensional crystals, including transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), graphene, and black phosphorus.  94, 95  Perovskite monolayers in 2D van der Waals stacked halide perovskite crystals have been fabricated using this technique. The most effective methods for producing high-quality monolayers are mechanical exfoliation and transfer method. These techniques can be used to create monolayers either from pre-existing layered structures or from a starting material that has been created on a substrate. The quantum Hall effect and superconductivity, which are intrinsic to 2D materials, have been seen in exfoliated flakes but not in samples made by other techniques.  95  Mechanical exfoliation is commonly employed to facilitate the growth of two-dimensional materials, resulting in a smooth surface and clearly defined morphology. These exfoliated films are more suitable for assembling devices and investigating properties compared to solution prepared perovskite monolayers. The exfoliation process involves a top-down approach to produce 2D halide perovskites. Scotch tape is used to produce atomically thin 2D structures by placing a bulk perovskite crystal between the adhesive sides of two pieces of scotch tape, 96,97 by pressing the tape against the substrate transfers 2D halide perovskite layers. Mechanical exfoliation was used in early efforts to isolate single-or double-layer halide perovskites from bulk material [Fig.  3(d) ]. The distinctive characteristics of layered halide perovskites (where n ¼ 1) facilitate their delamination into thin sheets of significant diameter. In addition, these sheets exhibit a high degree of crystallinity and have a smooth surface. These properties are of crucial importance for the conduct of fundamental research and in the further development of state-of-the-art electrical and optical devices through the use of individual flakes. Nevertheless, the relatively feeble in-plane ionic interactions sometimes lead to the formation of structural fissures and irregular flakes characterized by diminished variations in lateral size and thickness.  94  In a recent study, researchers discovered that by exfoliating large crystals of a halide perovskite in the RP phase, they were able to create uniform monolayers in the micrometer range. It has been found that these monolayers are made up of a certain number of inorganic layers, ranging from one to four (n ¼ 1-4).  98  When it comes to DJ phase halide perovskites, mechanical exfoliation is not possible due to the presence of organic spacers that possess strong ionic bonds that are stronger than van der Waals forces.  99  In 2021, Liu et al.  100  fabricate and characterize the 2D (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 single crystal FETs, which exhibit reliable field effect electrical characteristics at low temperatures [Fig.  3(e) ]. They are improving the device fabrication method to prevent the negative impacts of oxygen/water and light exposure on 2D perovskites. Additionally, they are successfully reducing ion migration at low temperatures. The 2D single crystal FET utilizing (C 4 H 9 NH 3 ) 2 (CH 3 NH 3 )Pb 2 I 7 typically demonstrates features of carrier transport in the n-type with an on-off ratio exceeding 10 6 and a maximum electron mobility of 0.5 cm 2 V À1 s À1 at a temperature of 80 K. However, the deposition of high-quality perovskite layers by coevaporation of the inorganic and organic components requires high control of the individual evaporation sources, due to the high volatility of the organic components, which poses a major challenge for the controllability and reproducibility of the process. Separating the deposition steps of inorganic and organic constituents, like in the two-step process employed in the CVD, can bypass this problem. On the other hand, the solution-based methods allow for a low-cost and large area processing, potentially also on flexible substrates; therefore, the development prospects of one or the other depend on the specific application. Examples of largely employed techniques for perovskite depositions are blade-coating, ink-jet printing, and spray coating.  101  Single crystal exfoliation has the least potential in terms of application given the intrinsic irreproducibility of the process; therefore, we believe it is more suitable for fundamental studies. 
 III. BASICS OF FIELD-EFFECT TRANSISTORS Charge carrier mobility (l) is a critical parameter in semiconductor physics as it contains plenty of information related to structural, electronic, and electrical properties of metals and semiconductors. In particular, semiconductor mobility is also crucial to predict the final performances of any electrical device as it is related to the switching function and frequency response of the device. It is therefore generally accepted that a high charge carrier mobility is desirable to achieve good device performances. There are different techniques to probe charge carrier mobility, which lead to different names: Hall mobility (l H , mobility measured by means of a Hall effect measurement), fieldeffect mobility (l FET , mobility inferred from a field-effect measurement), time-of-flight mobility (l TOF , measured in a time-of-flight configuration), and terahertz mobility (l THz , mobility measured from the time-resolved terahertz probe measurement). While the charge carrier mobility is a material's parameter, each measurement probes the same material in a different fashion, often leading to a mismatch among the values of charge carrier mobility measured with several techniques. Within this work, we will only refer to field-effect mobility (l FET ) measured in field-effect transistors. 
 A. Device structure Field-effect transistors (FETs) are electronic devices that employ a semiconductor layer, a gate dielectric layer, a gate electrode (G), and two source/drain (S/D) electrodes to control electrical signals through the manipulation of the electric field. Inorganic semiconductors such as silicon are typically used in conventional FETs, but the material landscape is changing while novel semiconductors are explored. In fact, FETs can be made from a variety of semiconductors, including 2D semiconductors, metal-oxide semiconductors, organic semiconductors, and halide perovskite semiconductors. FETs play a vital role in electronic applications, serving as switches that are at the core of any complex electronic architecture. FETs also play a pivotal role in semiconductor physics as a tool to study the electrical properties of semiconductors and to understand the physics of charge carrier transport. A dielectric layer separates the semiconductor from the gate electrode, and this semiconductor is directly connected to the source and drain electrodes. The gate electrode modulates the charge carrier density in the channel formed between the source and drain electrodes. The source electrode, acting as a reference electrode for the V ds and V gs , is generally connected to ground when a voltage is applied to the gate electrode and the drain electrode. In the channel between the source and drain electrodes, there is a potential difference where charge carriers are compelled by an electrical force. The migration of charge carriers from the source to the drain is facilitated by the potential difference between the source and drain electrodes created by the drain voltage. When both the gate and drain voltages are applied simultaneously, this results in a controlled current flow between the source and drain electrodes. For FET devices, understanding of the relationship between the source-drain bias and the carrier concentration gradient in the transport channel is crucial. In addition, the gate voltage has a significant effect on the modification of the carrier density that is transferred between the source and drain electrodes and thus influences the total current. Furthermore, FETs have different device configurations [Fig.  4(a) ], such as bottom-contact bottom-gate (BCBG), bottom-contact top-gate (BCTG), top-contact top-gate (TCTG), and top-contact bottom-gate (TCBG).  102  Among the abovementioned device architectures, bottom-contact devices offer the advantage of being suitable for modification of the electrode work function, and therefore charge injection, by chemisorption of selfassembled monolayers (SAM), which is not possible with top-contact architectures. As well, top-gated architectures represent a better option for the engineering of the semiconductor/dielectric interface because the dielectric layer could be deposited (polymer) or grown (inorganic oxide) on top of the perovskite layer. Hence, this mitigates the wettability constraints for the deposition of the perovskite layer on highly hydrophobic substrates. In addition, the dual-gate geometry allows to add a further knob to control density and type of charge carriers within the perovskite layer. The density of a given charge carrier, be it hole or electron, can be controlled by polarizing both gates with a voltage of the same sign. In order to activate both types of carriers in the channel, one can apply voltages of opposite sign to the gates. Scientists are demonstrating different architectures for perovskite transistors, but the silicon/silicon oxide (Si/SiO 2 ) bottom-gate structures are most commonly used due to their ease of fabrication. The channel length L (the distance between the source and drain) of perovskite FETs currently employed ranges from a few to several hundred micrometers. Similarly, the channel width (W) of the electrodes is typically in the range of a few hundred micrometers to a few millimeters. The operating gate voltage range is directly related to the capacitance (C a ) of the dielectric layer, which is ultimately related to the thickness and the breakdown voltage of the insulating layer. For low voltage operation at 3.3 or 5 V in modern electronics, thin and/or high-k dielectric layers are essential. The maximum operating frequency of field effect transistors can also be influenced by the design and geometry of the transistor, in particular, the degree of overlap between source-gate and drain-gate electrodes, which create parasitic capacitances. In unipolar devices, the main charge carriers are either holes (pchannel) or electrons (n-channel), but in ambipolar devices, however, both carriers contribute to the current flow through the channel. FETs can operate in a number of different modes, but to simplify, let us focus on a single carrier type. When a voltage (V GS ) is applied between the source and gate electrodes, charges will begin to accumulate at the interface between the semiconductor and the dielectric if V GS exceeds the threshold voltage (V th ). The total carrier density is directly proportional to the difference between V GS and V th (V GS ÀV th ). The dominant carrier in the channel is determine by the polarity of the applied gate voltage and the characteristics of the injecting contact. The voltage (V DS ) between the source and drain electrodes determines the mobile charges of the semiconductor channel. The total channel current I DS from source to drain can be expressed using the following equation: I DS ¼ W L C a l V GS À V th ð Þ V DS À 1 2 V DS 2 ; ( 1 ) where l is the charge carrier mobility, independent of the electric field. There is a linear relationship between I DS and V DS for a given V GS in the "linear region" of the output characteristics [Fig. 4(b)]. This relationship holds when the source-drain voltages are much smaller than the gate voltages (V DS ( V GS ), allowing the term 1/2V DS 2 to be ignored. Equation (  2 ) can be used to express charge carrier movement in the linear region l lin ¼ @I DS @V GS Ã L WC a V DS : (2) When the voltage difference between the drain and source (V DS ) exceeds the threshold voltage (V GS ÀV th ), the charge density at the drain electrode reaches zero. In the "saturation region", the channel current will remain constant as the V DS increases, resulting in a "pinch"-off of the channel. The channel current can be represented as follows in this saturation region: For sufficiently large values of V DS , as shown in Fig.  4 (b), the square root of the channel current relies linearly on the gate voltage according to Eq. (  3 ). Thus, the carrier mobility in the saturation region can be determined using the following equation: I DS ¼ W 2L l sat C a V GS À V th ð Þ 2 : (3) l sat ¼ 2L WC a @I DS 1 2 @V GS ! 2 : (4) The transistor switches to the "off" state, when the gate voltage is lower than the threshold voltage. This occurs because the concentration of mobile carriers is insufficient, resulting in a very low channel current. The voltage at which the channel current suddenly exceeds the offcurrent is called the onset voltage (V on ), and by analyzing the semilog plot of the channel current, this can be determined [Fig.  4(b) ]. The interface trap density and the dielectric layer capacitance must be considered to understand the subthreshold swing (S); these factors play a role in determining the steepness of the channel current rise (Eq. (  5 )) S ¼ @V GS @ logI DS ð Þ : (5) The on/off-ratio for a particular V GS and V DS can also be directly extracted using the semilog plot of I DS . This ratio is commonly expressed as a power of tens and represents the difference between "on" and "off" currents. The above expressions, in particular, the carrier mobility expressions in Eqs. (  2 ) and (  4 ), are derived from the gradual channel approximation. This approximation assumes that the electric field generated by the gate electrode is perpendicular to the direction of charge transport and exceeds the electric field resulting from the source-drain voltage.  102  These requirements are normally achieved using channel lengths in the micrometer range and dielectric thicknesses of several hundred nanometers. In contrast, short channel devices do not meet these criteria when integrated with thicker dielectrics. Additionally, since perfect electrical contacts are assumed, the effect of contact resistance is disregarded in the calculations above. Perovskite FETs are frequently reported to exhibit non-ideal behavior and deviate from these analytical formulas, which may cause the charge carrier mobility to be over-or under-estimated;  103  it will be discussed further in a later section. We will now discuss perovskite materials' unique physical features, which affect the FET's operation and performance. 
 B. Effect of gate dielectric and electrode materials on performance of perovskite FET The quality of the semiconductor layer affects the performance of FET devices, including the architecture of the device and the interfaces. The processes that take place at the interfaces between the dielectric and the semiconductor, and between the electrode and the semiconductor, are of utmost importance. The presence of a high-quality perovskite layer does not ensure excellent device performance. 
 Gate dielectrics used in perovskite FETs The gate dielectrics in FETs must be chosen considering several different abilities. The operating voltages of a device are directly affected by its dielectric thickness and dielectric constant (e r ). Reducing the dielectric thickness or using high er dielectrics, such as high-k dielectrics, can be used to mitigate this.  104  Interfacial trap densities at the perovskite/dielectric interface affect device properties where the device channel is formed, which are determined by the chemical reactivity and the irregularity of the dielectric surface.  105, 106  The influence of processability and mechanical flexibility on the device geometry (specifically top/bottom gate and transistor operating conditions) is becoming increasingly important. SiO 2 is a frequently used dielectric in perovskite FET devices, as it is in many other types of FETs.  107, 108  It is commonly used in the manufacture of bottom gate transistors due to its moderate dielectric constant (e r ¼ 3.9), wide availability, and simple manufacturing process. In addition, SiO 2 has a remarkably smooth surface, with a roughness of approximately 0.1 nm, which is crucial for creating an excellent interface with semiconductor layers.  109  A wide variety of metal oxide dielectrics have been used in perovskite FETs, including those with higher dielectric constants such as the following: Y 2 O 3 (e r ¼ 15), HfO 2 (e r ¼ 25), and Al 2 O 3 (e r ¼ 9), which allow transistors to operate at lower voltages.  [110] [111] [112] [113]  Cytop (e r ¼ 2.1) and PMMA (e r ¼ 4.9) are two examples of polymer dielectrics that have various significant advantages.  114, 115  First, because they are more chemically inert than SiO 2 , their interaction with perovskite semiconductors often results in lower trap densities, which contributes to improved device performance.  116  Second, large flexible device arrays can be produced due to the mechanical flexibility of the material. Third, because they are deposited from a solution, unlike SiO 2 , they can be used not only in bottom-gate FETs but also in topgate FETs. They can be a coating on the surface of the perovskite film that acts as an encapsulation layer in top gate FETs. This not only prolongs the life of the device but also improves its performance.  117  Previous research has shown that there is a possibility of interaction between the Pb 2þ ions in the precursor and the polymer, either through the electronegative oxygen or phenyl groups. This interaction has the potential to hinder the formation of a high-quality films; it is important to exercise caution when considering the use of polymer dielectrics for bottom gate devices.  118   
 Source-drain electrodes used in perovskite FETs A wide range of contact materials, including Ag, Al, Pd, Pt, and Cr, have been tested in perovskite FET fabrication.  119  The most frequent material is still gold (Au) or Au that has been chemically treated with self-assembled monolayers (SAMs).  39  The p-type transport has been observed in 2D polycrystalline perovskite FETs that are electroding with Au contacts. 3D perovskite devices using MAPbI 3 and MAPbI 3-x Cl x with untreated Au contacts have demonstrated ambipolar transport. However, similar device structures have also demonstrated pure n-type and p-type devices, demonstrating the complex nature of FET operation. It is clear that the selection of the electrode material on the basis of the alignment of the energy levels alone will not ensure an efficient selective injection.  54, 120  Au has traditionally been considered to be a non-reactive metal, but recent findings indicate that hybrid perovskites have the ability to undergo electrochemical or thermochemical reactions with Au, resulting in the formation of species such as (MA) 2 Au 2 I 6 (in the case of MAPbI 3 ) or AuBr 3 (in the case of MAPbBr 3 ).  121, 122  Treatment with a SAM or the insertion of an interlayer is the potential solution to the Au interface reactivity issue.  122  The chemical functionalization process is a crucial component in preventing electrochemical degradation and modifying the injection barrier at the semiconductor/contact interface. They can also be used to optimize the perovskite film microstructure by controlling surface energy.  122  By evaporating a C 60 interlayer between a low work function aluminum electrode and the perovskite, n-type transport could be observed in (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs thanks to a reduction of the electron injection barrier combined with a suppression of the electrode degradation.  123  The MoO x interlayer also improved hole transport in MAPbI 3 and (PEA) 2 SnI 4 transistors.  39  The wide range of electrode and dielectric materials that can be used in the production of perovskite FETs allows for significant property modification while the perovskite active layer remains unchanged. 
 C. Perovskite coupling with other materials 2D materials have inspired countless research efforts throughout the years due to their distinctive layered crystal formations and extraordinary physical capabilities. These materials have been combined with other materials to improve device performance, as well as being used as active layers in electronic devices. These 2D materials are believed to be efficient photosensitive or charge transporting layers that enhance the performance of perovskite FETs. Due to its intriguing physical properties, graphene, a 2D material that has been extensively investigated, has drawn a great deal of attention in a variety of electrical devices.  124  Graphene is good for hybridizing with other semiconducting materials, such as halide perovskites, due to its attractive electrical and optical features. Lee et al. have developed the first hybrid perovskite and graphene heterojunction phototransistor.  125  In this fabrication, the MAPbI 3 film acts as the photosensitive layer due to its exceptional optoelectronic properties, and graphene provides a large carrier diffusion channel owing to its remarkable transport properties. Effective charge separation within the heterojunction and the strong photogating effect are responsible for the device's high sensitivity of 180 AW À1 and a substantial gain of around 500. The utilization of perovskite/graphene hybridization has the potential to improve the performance of phototransistors. However, it is important to note that the zero-bandgap property of graphene allows for a high level of conductivity, which results in the occurrence of large dark currents within the hybrid channels. Reduced graphene oxides and different transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), including MoS 2 , have also been thought of as potential substitutes for the perovskite photo/transistors' transporting layers in this regard. The development of highquality heterojunctions, in which perovskites are hybridized with TMDs with ideal band alignments, has led to widespread reports of related photo-transistors with much improved performance.  126, 127  Future research should focus on creating new device architectures and unique 2D materials to significantly enhance the performance of perovskite phototransistor devices. These results are suggested that 3D perovskite heterojunctions are investigated field but 2D perovskite heterostructure/heterojunctions are less investigated field. To the best of our knowledge, only one publication from the Yong-Young Noh group,  128  they combine a lead-free 2D halide perovskite material (PEA) 2 SnI 4 with semiconducting carbon nanotubes (semi-CNTs) wrapped in an embedded conjugated polymer. The incorporation of semi-CNTs in (PEA) 2 SnI 4 /semi-CNT hybrid transistors facilitate the establishment of transport pathways, thereby improving carrier transport efficiency by reducing trapping and scattering. The effectiveness of the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 /semi-CNT hybrid phototransistors is also demonstrated with highlighting their exceptional photoresponsivity (R) of 6.3 Â 10 4 A/W and a detectivity (DÃ) of 1.12 Â 10 17 Jones. 
 D. Role of different spacer cation for charge transport Chen and colleagues first demonstrated the inherent carrier transport properties of the 2D Ruddelsden-Popper perovskite (RP) (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 .  43  It consists of varying amounts of inorganic perovskite layers (n) derived from phase-pure single crystals (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3). FET structure fabricated from 2D hybrid RP perovskite single crystals and schematic illustration of different perovskite layer thicknesses shown in Fig.  5(a) . The analysis of individual single crystal flakes with different n-values at different temperatures allows the determination of the output and the transfer curves. All these 2D RP single crystal electrical properties were dominated by a unipolar n-type transport. The mobility significantly rises when the ratio of inorganic perovskite slabs to organic spacers rises, and the transport behavior of 2D organohalide hybrid perovskites shows strong dependency on the n-value. The mobility values at 77 K are 2 Â 10 À3 , 8.3 Â 10 À2 , and 1.25 cm 2 V À1 s À1 for n ¼ 1, 2, and 3, respectively. The optical and electrical properties of 2D hybrid perovskites are strongly influenced by the number of inorganic perovskite films (n). Therefore, valuable information on the behavior of carrier transport is obtained from investigations on pure phase samples of a homologous series of 2D perovskites with different amounts of inorganic perovskite layers (n). Figure  5 (a) schematically shows FETs fabricated from phase pure homologous (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3) 2D organohalide hybrid perovskite single crystals. To fabricate 2D FET devices, they used high-quality, mechanically exfoliated 2D perovskite single crystals and measured the output and transfer curves of flakes with different n-values. The researchers verified the crystal structure and phase purity of these 2D RPP single crystals by x-ray diffraction (XRD) [Fig.  5(b) ]. Furthermore, as the thickness of the perovskite layer increases from n ¼ 1 to n ¼ 3, the lattice spacing increased in a consistent manner, and a single [PbI 6 ] perovskite layer has an estimated thickness of 0.6 nm. To make two-dimensional perovskite fieldeffect transistor (FET) devices, individual perovskite crystal flakes with n values of 1, 2, and 3 were separated from larger crystals using the traditional scotch-tape technique. These flakes were then transferred to a silicon substrate with a silicon oxide layer of a thickness of 285 nm. This process was carried out in a glovebox under an inert atmosphere in order to avoid any chemical reaction with water or oxygen. The single crystal flakes (n ¼ 1, 2, and 3) used to fabricate all FET devices were typically 80-100 nm thick. Silver electrodes were deposited on the exfoliated crystals by thermal evaporation using a metal shadow mask. A typical optical image of a FET device (n ¼ 1) based on a single 2D perovskite crystal flake is shown in Fig.  5(c ). Figure  5(d ) schematically shows the transport mechanism of 2D halide perovskite single crystal FETs with n ¼ 1, 2, and 3. The direction and strength of the current flow in the conduction channel are indicated by the red arrows and the colors of the arrows. The carrier transport mobility of 2D organic halide-perovskite FETs can be significantly enhanced by increasing the n-value of the device. This can be achieved through increasing the proportion of organic spacing material to inorganic sheets with lower conductivity. These findings suggest that 2D organic/organic hybrid perovskites may represent a new class of solution grown semiconductors, where the electronic transport behavior can be tuned by changing the size, length, and conjugation of the organic spacer and the number of inorganic sheets. 
 IV. NOVEL ARCHITECTURE/PROCESSING APPROACHES TOWARD HIGH PERFORMING FETS In this section, we will review the device architectures, which is the most suitable halide perovskite structure for FETs. 
 A. Thin-film based devices The first 2D MHP FETs were reported by Kagan et al. in 1999, at room temperature (RT); they demonstrated spin-coated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 BGBC FETs with an on/off ratio of 10 4 and a hole mobility of 0.62 cm 2 V À1 s À1 .  59  Although deposited by spin coating, (PEA) 2 SnI 4 were found to be highly oriented, favoring hole transport in the 2D crystal planeparallel to the transistor channel [Fig.  6(a) ]. In 2001, the same group succeeded in increasing the mobility of the holes to a value of l h ¼ 1.4 cm 2 V À1 s À1 . However, significant negative thresholds and I-V curve hysteresis were still present in the transistors.  129  Evaluation of 2D MHP film microstructure, including properties such as crystallinity and grain boundaries, is widely recognized as a crucial parameter for FET device performance. BGBC FETs on the basis of melt processed (PEA) 2 SnI 4 with a melting temperature of 213 C have been reported by Mitzi et al.  107  In this process, (PEA) 2 SnI 4 was sandwiched between a polyimide-treated silicon substrate and a kapton cover sheet. The sandwich was then heated on a hot plate, which was kept at a temperature of 65 C below the melting point. Another heated plate was then manually pressed onto the sandwich structure at a temperature of 5-10 C above the melting point. As the top plate was removed, the melted film cooled and hardened. There were significantly fewer grain boundaries in the channel layers that underwent melt processing compared to the spin-coated films. As a result, at RT, the melt-processed devices showed greater linear-region and saturation-region hole mobilities of 2.6 and 1.7 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , respectively. Matsushima and co-workers use the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 perovskite as an active semiconductor layer for the optimization of BCBG FETs.  39  These optimizations have increased the mobility of the holes from 0.53 to 2.5 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , and the hysteresis is negligible. They also measured the different hole trap depths in the BCBG and TCTG FET designs, both with and without SAM treatment [Fig.  6(b) ] by thermally stimulated current (TSC) method; these hole trap depths ranged from 0.1 to 0.7 eV. The area under the TSC peak [Fig.  6(b) ] can be used to compute the hole trap sheet density N t . The TCTG configuration appears to have the lowest N t . In addition, by utilizing the SAMtreatment, they selected the optimal TCTG configuration and fabricated FETs employing a 2-nm MoO x layer at the interface between the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 and metal electrodes, resulting in a maximum hole mobility l h of up to 15 cm 2 V À1 s À1 [Fig.  6(c) ]. The high l h observed in (PEA) 2 SnI 4 films grown on NH 3 I-SAM treated substrates can be attributed to several factors. These factors include the presence of high crystallinity perovskite samples, the improved hole injection achieved by the use of the TCTG structure with MoO x hole injection films, and the reduced hole trap density along the perovskite-gate-dielectric interface in the TG structure. By reducing the presence of residual starting materials and associated ions in the perovskite films, the NH 3 I-SAM treatment successfully reduced the hysteresis in the output and transfer characteristics. Adachi et al. increased the current injection into the conduction band of an n-type 2D perovskite FET by adding a C 60 interlayer between the contact metal and the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 film.  123  They found that the mobilities of the Au/C 60 contacts were l e ¼ 0.9 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , those of the Ag/C 60 electrodes were l e ¼ 1.4 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , and those of the Al/C 60 electrodes were l e ¼ 2.1 cm 2 V À1 s À1 [Fig.  6(d)] . Adachi and his co-workers conducted a study where they found that by increasing the length of the transistor channel to 500 lm, the effect of the contact resistance on the performance of the transistor has been significantly reduced.  114  They also measured the electron and hole mobilities, which were found to be l e ¼ 4.6 and l h ¼ 26 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , respectively [Fig.  7(a) ]. Gao et al. showed that the substitution of the PEA organic cation by 2-(3 000 ,4 0 -dimethyl-[2,2 0 :5 0 ,2 00 :5 00 ,2 000 -quaterthiophen]-5-yl) ethan-1-ammonium (4Tm) increased the mobility from l h ¼ 0.15 to l h ¼ 2.32 cm 2 V À1 s À1 [Fig.  7(b) ].  38  In comparison, with the identical device setup, the (4Tm) 2 SnI 4 demonstrated significantly better overall field-effect behaviors. As an example, devices based on (4Tm) 2 SnI 4 showed improvements in drain current saturation at high V DS , a reduced leakage current of 10 À10 A, a reduced subthreshold swing (SS) of 10 V/dec, and a high on/off channel current ratio of 10 6 . 2D layered organic-inorganic Sn-based perovskites in the Dion-Jacobson (DJ) phase also have potential applications in FETs, similar to their Ruddlesden-Popper (RP) counterparts [Fig.  7(c)] . Teng and his co-workers recently reported on 1,4-butanediamine tin iodide perovskite (BDASnI 4 )-based FETs, which they developed using a polymer-bottom-gated thin film.  130  Improved operational stability and superior performance of the P-type BDASnI 4 transistors were seen under ambient conditions, with a hole mobility of l h ¼ 0.58 cm 2 V À1 s À1 . Qiu et al.  131  fabricated a new type 2D transistors by sandwiching a SnO 2 interlayer between the substrate and the 2D perovskite's layers, as well as included the NH 4 Cl additive in the perovskites [Fig.  7(d) ]. The presence of a SnO 2 interlayer in perovskite materials leads to the parallel alignment of the inorganic slabs. Moreover, the addition of NH 4 Cl improves the crystallinity of the film and passivates traps through the doping effect. Collectively, these effects help suppress ion migration and improve charge transport efficiency. The Champion device has a mobility of approximately 10 À2 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and an on/ off ratio of approximately 10 4 , with negligible hysteresis under ambient conditions. 
 B. Exfoliated crystal and microplate-based devices To improve the efficiency of perovskite FETs, it is essential to reduce the presence of grain boundaries in the active channel, as these impede ion migration. In this particular aspect, perovskite microplates and single crystals with few or no grain boundaries are considered to be promising candidates for FETs with improved performance. Matsushima et al.  132  achieved even higher performance in 2D MHP FETs by the fabrication of BGBC FETs from exfoliated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 crystals with MoO x hole injection layer [Fig.  8(a) ]. From a solution of PEAI and SnI 2 at a temperature of about À25 C, the crystal of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 was grown overnight. Figure  8 (a) shows optical microscope images of the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 crystals as-grown and after exfoliation. The surfaces of the exfoliated crystals were not always flat enough to make good contact with the electrodes, which resulted in a slight reduction in the performance of the working FETs. Despite these limitations, the fabricated FETs were found to exhibit an average hole mobility of 40 cm 2 V À1 s À1 at RT in the saturation region [Fig.  8(a) ] due to the low density of grain boundaries of the exfoliated crystal as well as the moderate structural disorder. Recently, Shen and his colleagues  133  fabricated and analyzed BCBG FETs based on assynthesized millimeter-sized (PEA) 2 CsSn 2 I 7 halide perovskite semiconductors [Fig.  8(b) ] and achieved a high carrier mobility of 34 cm 2 V À1 s À1 at a low temperature of 77 K. Zhu and co-workers  134  reported a simple and effective antisolvent crystallization approach for the synthesis of thin nanosheets (NSs) of (PEA) 2 PbI 4 . This method offers a faster and more convenient approach compared to the conventional solution-based process, making it a promising advancement for material synthesis and device fabrication. They also varied the halide and synthesized (PEA) 2 PbBr 4 and (PEA) 2 PbCl 4 nanosheets. The FET based on the (PEA) 2 PbI 4 NS shows superior performance compared to the transistors with the (PEA) 2 PbBr 4 and (PEA) 2 PbCl 4 NSs, with a high l h of 0.143 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and a V th of 5.19 V [Fig.  8(c) ]. Wang and co-workers effectively synthesized free-standing 2D halide double PVKs (PEA) 4 BiAgBr 8 microplatelets (MPs) in ambient conditions using a simple selfassembly anti-solvent recrystallization process (ASRC) [Fig.  8(d)] .  44  FETs based on a single (PEA) 4 BiAgBr 8 microplate exhibit p-type semiconductivity with an on/off ratio of about 10 2 and a field effect mobility of about 1.66 Â 10 À5 cm 2 V À1 s À1 . 
 C. Field-effect transistors with semiconducting layer made of vacuum deposited 2D perovskite Vapor deposition was used to deposit films of organic-inorganic layered (PEA) 2 SnI 4 perovskite on the substrates that had been exposed to different temperatures (T sub ) in order to study the effect of T sub on the quality of the films and the performance of the transistors (hole mobilities, current on/off ratios, and threshold voltages). Matsushima et al. used a vacuum deposition technique to fabricate (PEA) 2 SnI 4 films on OTS-treated Si/SiO 2 substrates to enhance the surface level arrangement of the films.  135, 136  Perovskite films with a larger grain size have been produced by means of vacuum deposition when the substrate is heated to a suitable temperature of T sub 60 C. Figure  9 (a) depicts the schematic representation of transistors utilizing (PEA) 2 SnI 4 as the semiconductor material. Additionally, it presents a plot illustrating the variations in thicknesses of PEAI, SnI 2, and (PEA) 2 SnI 4 films with respect to T sub . The improved performance of the transistor was achieved by reducing the thickness (t) of the perovskite semiconductor, resulting in a reduction in bulk resistance within the top contact/bottom gate transistor configuration. The perovskite structure formed on an OTS-SAM treated substrate is shown in Fig.  9(b) .  135  A significantly improved hole mobility of 0.78 6 0.24 cm 2 V À1 s À1 was achieved at the optimized T sub of 60 C and a thickness (t) of 31 nm [Fig.  9(c)] . This is approximately 5000 times greater than the hole mobility of their original transistors, which were fabricated at Tsub 24 C and had a thickness of about 50 nm.  136   
 D. Phototransistors based on 2D halide perovskite Low-dimensional hybrid perovskites provide excellent optoelectronic performances, including outstanding quantum and photoelectric conversion efficiencies, transport properties, and better stability when associated with traditional 3D hybrid perovskites.  [137] [138] [139]  These remarkable characteristics make them a strong contender for photo field-effect transistors. The architectures of phototransistors are comparable to or identical to those of ordinary FETs. Typically, they can function as photodetectors and field-effect transistors at the same time. Phototransistor devices work differently from conventional FETs. In these devices, both light and gate voltage can be used to modulate the carrier density in the charge transport channel. The presence of incident light illumination in 2D perovskite semiconductors serves as an additional tuning effect, facilitated by the carrier photogeneration mechanism. This mechanism effectively regulates the source/drain current using the gate voltage. When exposed to light, electron-hole pairs are generated. By applying a gate voltage and source-drain voltage, these electron-hole pairs can be effectively separated into free carriers, hence prolonging the recombination period. The first 2D perovskite-based phototransistor with a conventional FET structure has been successfully demonstrated by Chen et al. [Fig.  10(a) ], thus laying the foundation for subsequent investigations in the field of 2D perovskite-based phototransistors.  137  The Pb-free 2D perovskite [(PEA) 2 SnI 4 ] exhibits a higher quantum efficiency, resulting in a responsivity >10 4 A W À1 for the associated phototransistors. This is evidence that the hybrid perovskite optoelectronic system is intrinsically ultra-stable with high field effect conductivity. They tested the device using different wavelengths of light, including red, green, and blue lights at very low intensities. When exposed to red light with a wavelength of 636 nm and an intensity of less than 5 lW cm À2 , the P and R values were measured to be 800 and 1.4 Â 10 4 A W À1 , respectively, at Vg ¼ þ13 V and V ds ¼ À40 V. For the given scenario with 3 lW cm À2 green light (516 nm), the P and R values peaked at 2000 and 1. 6 Â 10 4 A W À1 when V g was set to þ14 V and V ds was set to À40 V. When blue light with a power density of 5 lW cm À2 and a wavelength of 447 nm was applied, the P and R values increased significantly. Specifically, at V g ¼ þ16 V and V ds ¼ À40 V, the P value reached 8000 and the R value reached 1.9 Â 10 4 A W À1 [Fig.  10(b) ]. The high responsivity of these photodetection devices implies an excellent potential for optoelectrical response. To make 2D perovskite phototransistors and related devices more practical, further research and development is needed. Recent research has shown that the iodine in 2D perovskites undergoes spontaneous loss, resulting in the formation of positive iodide vacancies and subsequent degradation of these materials.  138  In addition, the impact of iodine loss can be successfully mitigated by overlaying 2D perovskite with conventional two-dimensional materials such as graphene or BN. As a consequence of this, they developed phototransistors by utilizing graphene/2D perovskite/graphene structures. These phototransistors not only exhibited amazing stability during a period of 75 days, without any signs of deterioration, but they also increased the photo-response efficiency [Figs.  10(c ) and 10(d)]. By integrating investigations in the relevant field of study, this approach of covering 2D perovskites with other common two-dimensional materials has the potential to serve as a viable method for fabricating 2D perovskite FET devices that are both stable and efficient. 
 E. Summary of measurement conditions and performance of 2D halide perovskite field effect transistor In this review, we have summarized the latest advances in 2D perovskite FETs, which have seen a significant resurgence of interest after a long period of inactivity. Excitingly, researchers have successfully fabricated and studied both n-type and p-type transistors using polycrystalline films and single crystals, employing different contacts and dielectrics. These results are summarized in Table  I . 
 V. CRITICAL ASSESSMENT/CHALLENGES OF 2D PEROVSKITE FOR FETs Although perovskite field-effect transistors have different functionalities from other perovskite electronic/optoelectronic devices, like LEDs, lasers, memory devices, photodetectors, or solar cells, they share some common challenges. In this section, some of these issues are addressed and the possible implications of optoelectronic devices for perovskite FETs are discussed. Electronic properties are affected by the inorganic layer, i.e., electrode/semiconductor alignment with carrier confinement, and electronic properties are affected by the organic layer, i.e., the electromagnetic environment experienced by the charges traveling in the inorganic layer, i.e., dielectric constant, etc. 
 A. Ion migration and ionic defects: Impact on perovskite FET operation The movement of holes and electrons, the redistribution of mobile ions, and the formation of ionic defects occur when an electric field is applied to a perovskite layer.  [145] [146] [147] [148]  Both anions (such as I À and Br À ) and cations (such as MA þ and Pb 2þ ) are typically involved in ion migration. For the typical MAPbI 3 , therefore 3D perovskite, firstprinciples calculations 149,150 consistently indicate that I À has the lowest E a value, suggesting a higher likelihood of migration within perovskite films. Experimental measurements have substantiated this assertion, revealing that the diffusivity of I À ranges from approximately 10 À12 to 10 À9 cm 2 s À1 , greatly surpassing that of organic cations (MA þ : approximately 10 À16 to 10 À11 cm 2 s À1 ).  151  Although perovskite compositions with single Cl À or Br À occupying X-sites are employed in earlier studies, there is still a strong preference for iodine-based mixed perovskites for current high-performance photovoltaic applications.  152  Numerous adverse effects have been reported due to the high mobility and high reactivity of I À being present during the device operation process. Even though the phenomenon is not as largely explored as for the 3D counterparts, 153 also the 2D perovskites seem to exhibit a similar behavior: when mixed halide BA 2 PbBr 2 I 2 films were immersed in dichloromethane (DCM) and irradiated with visible light, the photoinduced segregation was followed by sequential expulsion of I À and Br À . It is interesting to note that iodide, with its lower oxidation potential, gets expelled from the perovskite at a faster rate than bromide. A similar trend in rates of halide ion expulsion was confirmed by separately irradiating pristine BA 2 PbBr 4 and BA 2 PbI 4 films that were immersed in DCM.  154  However, the factors responsible for this phenomenon are still not fully understood in the context of 2D perovskites.  155, 156  The phenomenon of ion migration complicates the characterization of devices, as it introduces fluctuations in the electric field within the FET device and the calculation of mobility. Non-ideal current-voltage (I-V) characteristics can result from these effects, lead to under-or overestimating mobility, as well as faster deterioration of the material and the devices.  48, 153  In addition to ion motion, there are several physical mechanisms that should be taken into account that lead to underor overestimation of the actual mobility in halide perovskite FETs. These are contact resistances at the drain and source electrodes, bias stress effects, bulk and interfacial charge trapping, and fringe effects that generate non-idealities on the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. Contact resistance (R C ) is a significant issue that adversely impacts the performance and ideality of electrical characteristics of field-effect transistors (FETs), mainly the organic field-effect transistors (OFETs).  103, 157  Recently, Jurchescu and colleagues 158 tackled this difficulty by examining the influence of surface chemical functionalization on the contact resistance in thin films of phenethylammonium tin iodide (PEA 2 SnI 4 ) based perovskite FETs. They conducted selfassembled monolayer (SAM) treatments on the dielectric and electrode surfaces. The functionalization of the dielectric exhibited minimal influence on both channel properties and contact resistance, whereas the treatment of the Au contact led to an R C lowering of ca. 3 times, resulting in a value of 2.3 Â 10 4 X cm at room temperature. SAMs can facilitate a reduction in the Schottky barrier and serve as an ion blocking layer between the contact and the perovskite film, thereby constraining interfacial chemical processes. As a result, the contact resistance is reduced by over thrice in comparison to untreated contacts. The robustness of the FETs is a crucial criterion for reliability, assessed under constant electrical biases at their electrodes over an Bias-stress-induced instability typically originates from bipolaron formation and charge trapping in a semiconductor, typically occurring at the semiconductor/dielectric interface. In halide perovskite materials, charge trapping also plays a crucial role for their mobility value. Recently, Zhao and co-workers 161 showed a novel strategy to achieve high-performance and stable formamidinium tin iodide (FASnI 3 ) field-effect transistors. More specifically, the initial perovskite composition was modified by the addition of either phenethylammonium iodide (PEA) or 4-fluorophenylethylammonium iodide (F-PEA). The authors employed several experimental techniques to study optimized FPEA-modified FASnI 3 FETs that achieved a record field-effect mobility of 15.1 cm 2 /(VÁs) with little hysteresis. Mobility overestimation can also be caused by the fringe field effects and previously reported also for organic-based FETs.  162  Unpatterned semiconductor active layers or gate/gate dielectrics have effective channel dimensions that substantially diverge from the values established by the source-drain electrodes due to the fringe field effect. In practice, fringe effects can be reduced by carefully selecting the device geometry and channel dimensions. In halide perovskite-based FETs, the patterning of the active layer isolates the source-drain electrodes, so preventing unwanted current flow outside the contact electrodes and semiconducting channel areas, thus reducing fringe current.  163  Significantly, the electric fields generated by FETs can be substantially stronger than those generated by photovoltaic or light-emitting devices. However, when the gatesource voltage is applied simultaneously, the overall electric field is at least one order of magnitude more than what is typically found in solar cells. The primary detrimental consequence of ionic motion in perovskite FETs is the screening of the gate voltage. This phenomenon not only reduces the channel current, but it also reduces the effective density of the mobile carriers. In low-dimensional perovskites, strong van der Waals interactions and intercalated spacer ligands prevent the migration of halide ions. The effect of dimensionality (n) on the mobility of halide ions in 2D perovskites has recently been demonstrated by Kamat and co-workers.  164  By studying the absorption spectra of 2D lead halide perovskite films of different dimensions (n ¼ 10-1), the researchers observed the movement of the halide ions [Fig.  11(a) ]. The organic cations are sandwiched between different layers of the film, reducing the mobility of the halide ion in the 2D structure. The achievement of long-term stability in low-dimensional perovskite films is due to the effective control of halide ion mobility across the films by intercalated organic spacer ligands. The detection of hysteresis in the electrical properties of FETs has often been linked to the phenomenon of ion migration. It is significant to note, however, that ionic migration will also take place in systems where there is little or no hysteresis.  165  Recent discoveries in perovskite photovoltaics have shown that by carefully tuning the interfaces between the perovskite active layer and the charge transport materials, hysteresis can be significantly minimized.  166, 167  B. Effect of temperature Early research suggests that the structural fluctuations and dynamical disorder in lead-based 3D perovskites are caused by the rotations of the MA unit around its axis and the distortions of the PbX 6 octahedra.  55  Since these phenomena are thermally generated, they can be diminished and frequently even inhibited by lowering the temperature, which is why several early investigations reported on performance around 70-80 K.  55  More dependable transistor behavior, with minimal hysteresis and charge carrier mobilities >1 cm 2 V À1 s À1 at ambient condition, has been made possible by recent advancements in material and device engineering. This has allowed for the study of temperature-related effects in halide perovskite.  168  Key information about the process of charge transport in perovskite materials comes from temperature-dependent studies. Structural phase transitions in most perovskites should be taken into account in the evaluation of the effect of temperature on electronic transport. Most temperature dependent investigations on 3D metal halide perovskites have been conducted on MAPbI 3 , with just a few reports addressing different compositions, such as polycrystalline films of MAPbBr 3  122  and CsPbBr 3 .  169  According to the different experiments carried out on MAPbI 3 , an increasing carrier mobility with decreasing temperature was consistently observed between 300 and 160 K. This resulted in a negative temperature coefficient, indicating that electron-phonon coupling is the primary mechanism responsible for charge-carrier scattering. Temperature dependent measurements were performed by Senanayak et al  54  on polycrystalline films with different types of grain sizes. Different concentrations of ionic defects are typically associated with these grain sizes. They observed three primary regions (I-III) of temperature dependent electron mobility. It was observed that in the high temperature region (III) 240 K < T < 300 K, films with smaller grains and high defect concentrations have a larger temperature coefficient.  54  The charge transport in MAPbI 3 at T >240 K is mainly due to ion migration, as indicated by dielectric loss spectroscopy. In early perovskite FET research, electrostatic gating at room temperature was difficult to achieve because defect-rich MAPbI 3 films only had a field effect at low temperatures. The observed temperature dependence in the second region (II) at 160 K can be attributed to a reduction in the MA þ polarization disorder. This phenomenon is supported by changes on the order of MA þ polarization measured by a combination of temperature dependent capacitance and Raman measurements. Moreover, temperature dependent transport experiments on polycrystalline 2D halide perovskite (PEA) 2 SnI 4 films revealed a completely different pattern than in 3D perovskites [Fig.  11(b) ]. Measurements of low contact resistance FETs showed thermally induced transport, with electron and hole mobilities decreasing with temperature due to small crystallite size and polycrystalline films.  170  Similarly, primary tests on massive, millimeter-sized (PEA) 2 SnI 4 crystals by Papavassilliou and co-workers found a reduction in conductivity with decreasing temperature.  171  Recently, Liu et al. examined the relationship between temperature and the electrical properties of 2D (BA) 2 (MA)PbI 7 single crystals.  100  It was observed that the electron mobility exhibited an upward trend as the temperature decreased in the temperature range from 160 to 80 K. This finding is consistent with the notion that phonon scattering serves as the primary constraint on charge transport [Fig.  11(c)] . Ion migration, which also appears to be important in this low-dimensional environment, was found to cause large hysteresis and noticeably worse transistor performance at higher temperatures. In 2018, Chen and collaborators thoroughly investigated single crystals of (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 with varying n ¼ 1, 2, and 3 based FETs for temperatures below 200 K. All of the examined 2D materials showed rising electron mobilities with the increase in n and a negative temperature coefficient. Notably, the n ¼ 2 and n ¼ 3 perovskites did not show a sharp change in mobility near the phase transition temperature. The reason for this phenomenon is that in 2D perovskites, during the phase transition, while the structural integrity of the PbI 6 network remains unchanged, the organic cation undergoes mainly changes in arrangement and orientation.  43  C. Challenges in 2D perovskite FET 
 Effect of hysteresis The occurrence of hysteresis in the I-V characteristics has been largely undocumented in the early stages of halide perovskite research. In 2014, anomalous hysteresis was first observed in halide perovskitebased solar cell devices.  172  In 2001(Ref. 130) and 2004, 137 the phenomenon of hysteresis in perovskite FETs was observed for the first time in the 2D structure of perovskite (PEA) 2 SnI 4 . The researchers hypothesized that the hysteresis behavior observed in the transfer curves of field-effect transistor (FET) devices could be attributed to the existence of ionic impurities within the perovskite films, which correlated closely with the movement of the ions. In recent studies of perovskite FETs based on the same perovskite composition, hysteresis has been observed in both the output characteristics and the transfer characteristics.  39  Several ways have been demonstrated to be especially effective in decreasing hysteresis in 2D perovskite FETs, mostly acting on the interfaces. Matsushima et al. observed that the use of an ammonium iodide terminated SAM (NH 3 I-SAM) could be effective in reducing hysteresis in FET's.  39  These phenomena were found in both bottom and top gate devices, suggesting that interfacial changes have enhanced film development rather than transistor channel passivation [Fig.  12(a) ]. Interestingly, when the same SAM was applied to n-type (PEA) 2 SnI 4 transistors, the output characteristics of the devices showed a small but noticeable hysteresis [Fig.  6(d) ].  123  It has been suggested that the hysteresis and poor performance of the devices may be due to the significant concentration of electron traps in the perovskite layers. In another example, Gao et al. showed that the hysteresis of the resulting 2D perovskite FETs was significantly reduced by replacing the C 6 H 5 C 2 H 4 NH 3 þ cation with a p-conjugated oligothiophene ligand.  38  They suggested that this was due to the improved microstructure of the film, the lower trap density in the perovskite film, and the inhibition of ion migration by having sufficiently large organic cations to prevent ion migration. The hysteresis is also affected by the method of processing the perovskite layer. Transistors fabricated using thermally evaporated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 perovskite exhibited greater hysteresis compared to solution-processed devices, resulting in reduced FET performance due to the presence of smaller grains.  136  Similarly, hysteresis is more prevalent in solution-processed devices and the performance of thermally evaporated perovskite solar cells is currently inferior to that of the former.  173  Hysteresis was essentially absent in monocrystalline transistors fabricated from the same perovskite composition, emphasizing the importance of the microstructure of the perovskite active layer, and, in particular, the function of the grain boundary.  133  Zhu and collaborators demonstrated that increasing the stoichiometry of PEAI to SnI 2 could passivate grain boundaries and improve FET performance with reduced hysteresis.  41  By further reducing the defect density in the active layer and passivating the iodine vacancies in the perovskite layer, the hysteresis was further minimized when exposed to trace amounts of oxygen.  174  Hysteresis in 2D perovskite FETs with different numbers of inorganic layers was investigated by Li et al.  43  They fabricated FETs using (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 PbnI 3nþ1 perovskites, where n ¼ 1, 2, and 3, by adjusting the ratio of the organic cations butylammonium (BA) and methylammonium (MA), and also found that while hysteresis was present in all their devices, it increased with the increase in n. In 2D perovskites with more inorganic layers, the larger hysteresis correlated with increased ionic mobility. These findings are consistent with the significant hysteresis frequently noted in 3D perovskite FETs. 
 Operational stability The present emphasis of halide perovskite FET research, like that of any new field, is on improving device performance; in-depth investigation of the operational stability of FET. However, highlighting the remaining difficulties, several studies address specific device instabilities. For instance, Adachi and colleagues found that biasing a thermally deposited (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FET for 10 min at V GS ¼ V DS ¼ À40 V resulted in a roughly two-orders-of-magnitude drop in channel current.  136  This drop was caused by the accumulation of ions at the dielectric/gate interface. It could be completely reversed by applying a positive bias of the same magnitude. In single crystals of identical perovskite composition, the same group found significantly improved bias stability;  133  after biasing the device in vacuum for 1 hour at V GS ¼ V DS ¼ À50 V, the FET performance remained unaltered. More recently, Zhu et al. have compared the bias stability of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs with devices functionalized with different Lewis bases, 41 and the comparison was made over a period of 2000 s at V GS ¼ V SD ¼ À40 V. Devices fabricated with oxygen-containing Lewis bases such as Nmethyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), DMSO, and -butyrolactone (GBL), a 40% reduction in source-drain current was observed. Conversely, devices using nitrogen bases such as pyridine and acetonitrile remained stable, the latter showing significant improvement of over 30%. 
 Environmental stability The research community has been steadily shifting its focus from being primarily concerned with improving the performance of devices by studying and managing their degradation in the photovoltaic arena, to being closer to the commercialization stage. 2D perovskites have far higher air stability than their 3D counterparts; numerous research groups used this information to create perovskite solar cells with enhanced environmental stability.  86  Utilizing large, aliphatic, or aromatic organic spacer molecules appears to be the key to creating 2D materials with enhanced moisture stability by leveraging the hybrid character of these compounds. There have been several papers on the assembly of air-stable solar cell systems,  175  but comparatively few have assessed the intrinsic environmental stability of 2D perovskite materials, either as films or as single crystals.  176  Smith et al. created crystals of a two-dimensional perovskite with the chemical formula (PEA) 2 (MA) 2 Pb 3 I 10 , where PEA stands for phenylethylamine. The resulting films were able to withstand moisture with a relative humidity of 52% for a duration of 46 days.  86   . This compound demonstrated enhanced stability against moisture (RH ¼ 66%) for a duration of at least five days.  177  Park et al. employed a fluorinated bulky aromatic linker, specifically FSA ¼ 2-(4-(3-fluoro)stilbenyl)ethanammonium, to construct a 2D Sn(II) based perovskite with the chemical formula (FSA) 2 SnI 4 . This perovskite is stable in air for a duration exceeding one week.  178  Passarelli et al. utilized large polyaromatic connectors, such as pyrene-o-propylamine, to create materials having the chemical formula (R-NH 3 ) 2 PbI 4 . The resulting films demonstrated excellent water stability for a duration of five minutes when submerged in liquid water.  179  Kanatzidis and his colleagues  180  recently conducted a study on three different families of 2D Ruddlesden-Popper (RP) perovskites. These perovskites have a general formula of (R-NH 3 ) 2 (MA) nÀ1 Pb n I 3nþ1 , where n ranges from 1 to 5 and R-NH 3 represents different organic cations such as CH 3 (CH 2 ) 3 NH 3 þ , CH 3 (CH 2 ) 4 NH 3 þ , and CH 3 (CH 2 ) 5 NH 3 þ . The thin films of these perovskites were found to be stable in air for over a year. In addition, the study presented data for the first time regarding the association between the length of the organic spacer and the hydrophobicity of the matching materials, as determined by water contact angle measurements. This correlation was found to rise correspondingly. In addition, they demonstrated the inherent thermal and photostability of hybrid halide perovskites by a comprehensive set of tests, highlighting the crucial importance of this discovery for their potential commercial applications. In contrast to the significant progress in improving the stability of halide perovskite solar cells, there has been little research into the stability of perovskite FETs.  181  For instance, Matsushima et al. compared single crystal (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FET performance in N 2 , vacuum, and slightly humid air.  133  Scientists have identified two variables that contribute to stable FET performance in 35% humid air. First, the single crystal has an exceptionally low density of defects and grain boundaries, which are notorious for initiating the degradation process when exposed to O 2 or H 2 O. Second, the crystal surface is unlikely to oxidize due to the termination of the crystal surface by PEA. Following this preliminary analysis, the same researchers thoroughly investigated the stability of spin-coated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs in air.  117  By examining the impacts of exposure to oxygen and humidity individually, the authors discovered that, whereas oxygen exposure has negative effects on the film microstructure, exposure to humidity had no effect on the perovskite layer. It is important to note that exposure to trace concentrations of oxygen has been shown to improve the performance of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs.  41  This suggests that the significant degradation in performance by Matsushima et al. was most likely caused by the use of oxygen concentrations significantly higher than those used in their experiments. However, through the reduction of the grain boundary density in the polycrystalline perovskite film, they were able to significantly improve FET performance and measurement stability in air. Significantly, they also showed how a straightforward Cytop encapsulation of the perovskite FET might improve the device stability. The use of bulky linear conjugated oligothiophene cations can significantly improve the environmental stability of FETs, as shown by Gao et al. [Fig.  12(b) ].  38  The performance of the FET was steady under vacuum conditions, and after 30 days of storage in air without encapsulation, there was only a very slight performance deterioration. The hydrophobic nature of the conjugated cations and the intermolecular interactions between them can impede oxygen and moisture to enter the perovskite crystal, where the driving forces behind this remarkable increase in device stability. Qiu et al. investigate an ambient stable 2D Dion-Jacobson (DJ) phase tin halide perovskite (THP) FETs with BDASnI 4 semiconductor channels and outline strategies for optimizing device performance. The crystallization process of BDASnI 4 films is controlled by modulating two factors: (1) the use of an alkylammonium salt interlayer (ASI) between the SiO 2 /Si þþ substrates and the 2D BDASnI 4 films and (2) the addition of ammonium thiocyanate (NH 4 SCN) to the precursor solutions. The resulting perovskite films exhibit a uniform structure, excellent crystal quality, significant grain size, and low trap density. The improved BDASnI 4 FETs exhibit a field effect hole mobility of up to 1.61 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , an on/off ratio of 4.7 Â 10 6 , and exceptional operational and environmental stability of up to 140 days [Fig.  12(c) ].  182  Recently, Noh and co-workers  183  achieved enhanced ambient stability through 2D DJ halide perovskite based on the incorporation of 3-(aminomethyl)piperidinium tin iodide (3AMPSnI 4 ) and 4-(aminomethyl)piperidinium tin iodide (4AMPSnI 4 ). The different positions of the aminomethyl group influence the deformation of the crystal lattice, which in turn affects their optical and electrical properties. The 3AMPSnI 4 transistor shows good performance with minimal distortion. It achieves a 10-fold increase in field effect mobility and a two order of magnitude improvement in on/ off current ratio. The transfer curves of the 3AMPSnI 4 TFTs show an average saturation field effect mobility (l FE ) of 0.032 6 0.007 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and an on/off current ratio (I on /I off ) of more than 10 5 . On the other hand, the 4AMPSnI 4 TFT has an average l FE of 0.0014 6 0.0006 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and an I on /I off of 10 4 . The significant improvement in l FE and I on /I off observed in 3AMP þ based devices compared to 4AMP þ devices can be attributed to two factors: the reduced bandgap width and the increased grain size. In addition, the durability of both the film and the device when exposed to normal air conditions is significantly improved, as 2D DJ perovskites retain their crystal structure for more than 24 h. Although there is a significant amount of evidence indicating that perovskite materials degrade when exposed to oxygen and humidity, there has been a lack of comprehensive research on the stability of perovskite FETs in environmental conditions. This significant gap needs to be filled immediately for perovskite materials to be used in industrial applications in the future. In particular, the area of perovskite phototransistors, which, like other perovskite solar cells and LEDs, are susceptible to light-induced degradation, offer many potential strategies that could be used to address this important challenge. 
 Other challenges Extensive investigation into perovskite solar cells has uncovered that ions originating from the perovskite layer have the ability to penetrate the electrodes, resulting in the deterioration of the device. For example, the presence of silver iodide (AgI) at the electrode interface reduces solar cell efficiency, as shown by Kato et al.  184  In a similar way, Li and co-workers also demonstrate the production of AgI when lateral Ag electrodes are placed on top of a perovskite layer.  145  These preliminary instances imply the possibility of chemical interactions at the perovskite/metal interface, which can affect or degrade the performance of the device in perovskite FETs. In contrast to solar cells, which normally use Ag electrodes, source and drain contacts in perovskite FETs are frequently made of Au. For perovskite solar cells with Au electrodes, the degradation occurring during operation is related to the diffusion of Au into the active layer and not to the corrosion of the Au electrodes themselves. Au is a stable electrode that is resistant to environmental oxidation and the reaction with metal halides.  185  It is difficult to detect these processes at the Au/perovskite interfaces in perovskite FETs because these interfaces are inaccessible, especially after biasing. Wang et al. applied Au contacts to a single crystal of MAPbBr 3 perovskite using a soft lamination approach after biasing the device.  122  It has been shown that an electrochemical reaction takes place at the interface between the positively biased Au contact and the perovskite, resulting in the formation of AuBr 3 . These things are measured using time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) and x-ray photoemission spectroscopy [Fig.  12(d) ]. However, in static conditions, the perovskite components are not supposed to react with the gold electrode.  122  They also demonstrated the importance of interfacial engineering in improving the stability and performance of perovskite FETs by showing that the addition of a buffer layer of MoO 3 or PFBT reduced these electrochemical processes. Perovskite FETs require reliable large-scale manufacture before they can be used in modern day electronics. Wang et al. showed that by carefully nucleating and growing MAPbI 3 perovskite crystals on patterned surfaces with electrode pairs, multiple individually addressable FETs can be fabricated.  186  Over 1000 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs have recently been fabricated on a 4-in. wafer by  Zhu et al. 41  They randomly measured one hundred devices and their average mobility of 3.16 6 0.64 cm 2 V À1 s À1 , which was found to be relatively uniform. In all of the potential applications of perovskites, toxicity and environmental impact are major concerns.  187, 188  The use of alternate techniques for perovskite layer deposition may offer a path to the scale production of perovskite FETs. While most of the perovskite research focuses on treating them in solutions, perovskite compounds can also be deposited through thermal evaporation. Compared to solution processing, such deposition has several benefits. First, it does not use solvents, which reduces costs and has a positive effect on the environment. Second, it has been demonstrated that thermally evaporated perovskites crystallize without the requirement for thermal processing,  189  which greatly reduces processing time and the energy required for device manufacturing. In contrast to solution-processed layers, it also provides fine-grained control over layer thickness. Finally, numerous industrial applications have devised thermal evaporation techniques that can hasten the incorporation of perovskite FETs into massproduced electronic gadgets. 
 D. Measurement conditions The dynamic processes that occur in halide perovskite materials are extremely complicated, including ion migration, polarization, and defect healing. When choosing measurement and setting bias for the characterization of perovskite FETs, careful attention is required. FETs are often characterized in a continuous DC mode, with measurement times ranging from a few seconds up to several minutes.  190  However, applying these biases over a long period can cause ion migration in perovskite transistors. In theory, fast electrical characterization at high sweep rates can minimize these effects. However, using high sweep rates of a few volts per second may exaggerate the electrical performance of a device. Similarly, carrier mobility values can be falsely increased by high sweep rates in FETs, especially at higher temperatures where dynamic effects are significant. It is not simple to select the best sweep rate because it depends on a variety of elements, such as the device geometry and structure, perovskite type, and many more. It is advised that the sweep rate be recorded and characterization at different rates be supplied in order to standardize testing procedures and enhance reproducibility between different labs. It is essential that the instrumental delay time is large enough to account for the changes in integration times for both small and large channel currents. Mitigation of gate potential screening effects due to ion migration, pulsed, or AC modulated measurement techniques can be used. Understanding the measurement history of the perovskite device is crucial to accurately assess its properties and should be carefully considered when designing experiments. For accurate assessment of the effect of ion migration and shield effects on device performance, do not pre-bias the device, particularly with reverse voltage. One important consideration in the selection of measurement settings for perovskite FETs is that they are photoactive in the visible range. Perovskite materials have a remarkable ability to generate free charge carriers through light absorption; this is due to their low exciton binding energies.  138  It has been demonstrated that perovskite FETs are extremely light sensitive, with illumination increasing channel current by many orders of magnitude and resulting in generally greater charge carrier mobilities.  139  This has been the focus of much attention in the study of perovskite phototransistors, but it is also an important consideration in the characterization of conventional FETs. For optimal results, it is recommended to conduct transistor characterization in a dark environment to prevent the interference of photogenerated carriers in the channel current. Nonetheless, it is known that even prior to characterization, exposure to light influences device features. Light (even at low intensities) has been proven to successfully mend faults and cause ion redistribution in perovskite materials.  191  Prolonged high-intensity light can produce phase segregation and material deterioration.  192   
 VI. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOKS Hybrid perovskites have attracted considerable interest for their potential applications in a wide range of electrical and optoelectronic devices, including solar cells, lasers, memory devices, photodetectors, and LEDs. These materials are also strong candidates for use in transistors due to their excellent semiconductor properties, such as high carrier transport mobility and long carrier diffusion length. The poor stability of conventional 3D hybrid perovskites has been a major obstacle to their use in devices and to their further commercialization, especially when exposed to moisture, oxygen, light, and heat. Although these materials potentially have exceptional carrier transport capabilities. However, the field effect mobility of 3D perovskites is also affected by ion migration, which has an impact on the device performance. Hopefully, as a future option with fewer problems, 2D hybrid perovskites can be used effectively. The stability of 2D perovskites in humid, oxygen-, light-, or high-temperature environments is improved by introducing larger organic amine cations into the A-site of 3D perovskites. They prevent oxygen and water molecules from penetrating low-dimensional perovskite films; hydrophobic larger organic amine cations can serve as effective barriers. Consequently, the ion migration in the 2D perovskite is suppressed and the mobility of the field effect is higher in the low-dimensional hybrid perovskite FETs. In addition, the smoother and denser films produced by low-dimensional perovskites, due to their remarkable growth orientation properties, are useful in effectively blocking the migration of oxygen molecules into the films. Consequently, low-dimensional perovskites exhibit good oxygen stability due to their dense layers, smaller point defects, higher fracture energy, and increased formation energy. As a result of the aforementioned good properties, environmentally friendly lead-free low-dimensional perovskites with improved stability and high performance are now feasible for FET device applications. In spite of the current FET mobility gap between 3D vs 2D perovskites, the latter present the advantage of being more suited to the tuning of the dielectric environment experienced by the charge carriers transported within the inorganic layer by means of chemical design of the organic interlayers. This strategy appears to be particularly promising for the future improvement of the FET mobility in 2D perovskites. In summary, we have provided a concise overview of the recent advances in the use of halide perovskite FET devices, with particular emphasis on the challenges and prospects for improving the performance of the devices and for their commercialization. An overview was given of the extensive discussions on the exceptional charge transport properties, the distinctive crystal structure, and the significantly improved stability of the 2D hybrid perovskites. In addition to having the same exceptional properties as conventional 3D perovskites, the 2D perovskites (A 0 2 A nÀ1 B n X 3nþ1 ) produced by adding larger organic amine cations to conventional 3D hybrid perovskites are also capable of overcoming the drawbacks that prevent conventional 3D perovskites from being used in transistor applications. To commercialize low-cost, high-performance FETs based on 2D hybrid perovskites, further research is needed to improve the quality of materials and device structure designs. FIG. 1 . 1 FIG. 1. Year wise publication of 2D halide perovskite FETs. 
 FIG. 2 . 2 FIG. 2. Separation of n layer-lead halide octahedra through the introduction of organic spacer cations (n ¼ 1 for 2D, n > 1 for quasi-2D) along h100i, h110i, and h111i directions. The most common cases of the h100idirection are the Ruddlesden-Popper (RP), Dion-Jacobson (DJ), and alternating cations in the interlayer (ACI) (Ref. 62). Reproduced with permission from Leung et al., Commun. Mater. 3, 63 (2022). Copyright 2022 Springer Nature. 
 FIG. 3 . 3 FIG. 3. (a) Schematic representation of the synthesis of (PEA) 2 PbI 4 single crystal on a glass substrate (Ref. 89). Reproduced with permission from Liu et al., Nat. Commun. 9, 5302 (2018). Copyright 2018 Springer Nature. (b) Schematic illustration of the drop cast perovskite film (Ref. 92). Reproduced with permission from Zuo et al., Commun. Mater. 1, 33 (2020). Copyright 2022 Springer Nature. (c) Transfer and output characteristics of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 based thin film devices (Ref. 42). Reproduced with permission from Chen et al., Adv. Opt. Mater. 5, 1600539 (2016). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (d) Mechanical exfoliation of bulk layered perovskite crystals to monolayer synthesis (Ref. 94). Reproduced with permission from Akriti et al., APL Mater. 10, 040903 (2022). Copyright 2022 AIP Publishing. (e) Optical image of exfoliated flakes-based FET with transfer curves (Ref. 100). Reproduced with permission from Liu et al., Adv. Funct. Mater. 31, 2005662 (2021). Copyright 2021 John Wiley and Sons. 
 FIG. 4 . 4 FIG. 4. (a) Different architectures for halide perovskite-based field-effect transistors and (b) output and transfer characteristics (Ref. 119). Reproduced with permission from Paulus et al., Adv. Funct. Mater. 31, 2101029 (2021). Copyright 2021 John Wiley and Sons. 
 FIG. 5 . 5 FIG. 5. (a) FET device structure and schematic illustration of different perovskite layer thicknesses, i.e., n ¼ 1, 2, and 3, respectively, of 2D RP perovskite (BA) 2 (MA) nÀ1 PbnI 3nþ1 single crystals, (b) XRD of the different perovskite layer single crystals, (c) exfoliated 2D hybrid RP perovskite flakes with Ag contacts, and (d) transport mechanism of the 2D hybrid RP perovskite illustrated schematically (Ref. 43). Reproduced with permission from Li et al., Small 14, 1803763 (2018). Copyright 2021 John Wiley and Sons. 
 FIG. 6 . 6 FIG. 6. (a) Schematics of the (PEA) 2 SnI 4 based FET devices and its output characteristics (Ref. 59). Reproduced with permission from Kagan et al., Science 286, 945-947 (1999). Copyright 1999 Science. (b) (PEA) 2 SnI 4 grows on NH 3 I-SAM and its AFM compared with the substrate with/without SAM-treatment (Ref. 39). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Adv. Mater. 28, 10275-10281 (2016). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (c) Transfer and output characteristics of BCBG transistors (Ref. 39). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Adv. Mater. 28, 10275-10281 (2016). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (d) Schematic energy level diagram, output and transfer characteristics of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 based FETs by inserting C 60 layers between the perovskite semiconductor (Ref. 123). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Appl. Phys. Lett. 109, 253301 (2016). Copyright 2016 AIP Publishing. 
 FIG. 7 . 7 FIG. 7. (a) Temperature dependence transfer characteristics for the p/n-channel (PEA) 2 SnI 4 transistors and its schematic diagram of carrier transport (Ref. 106). Reproduced with permission from Mei et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 114, E6739 (2017). Copyright 2017 AIP Publishing. (b) Crystal structure of (4Tm) 2 SnI 4 perovskite and FET transfer characteristics (Ref. 38). Reproduced with permission from Gao et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141, 15577-15585 (2019). Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. (c) Comparison of charge transport and device performance between D-J phase BDASnI 4 and R-P phase (PEA) 2 SnI 4 FETs (Ref. 130). Reproduced with permission from Ji et al., J. Mater. Chem. A 11, 7767-7779 (2023). Copyright 2023 Royal Society of Chemistry. (d) Device structure diagram and transfer characteristics of the BGBC TFTs measured with V DS ¼ 80 V (Ref. 131). Reproduced with permission from Qiu et al., Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 4, 101217 (2023). Copyright 2023 Elsevier. 
 FIG. 8 . 8 FIG. 8. (a) Schematic diagram of exfoliated crystal-based FETs of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 , and as-grown flake optical microscopy images with output and transfer characteristics (Ref. 132). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Appl. Phys. Lett. 115, 120601 (2019). Copyright 2019 AIP Publishing. (b) Schematic illustration of (PEA) 2 CsSn 2 I 7 based FET and transfer characteristics at different temperatures (Ref. 133). Reproduced with permission from Shen et al., J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 10, 7-12 (2019). Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. (c) TEM and FESEM images of (PEA) 2 PbI 4 based nanosheets and corresponding scheme of nanosheets based field-effect transistor; output and transfer characteristics of (PEA) 2 PbI 4 nanosheet (Ref. 134). Reproduced with permission from Zhu et al., J. Mater. Chem. C 6, 3945-3950 (2018). Copyright 2018 Royal Society of Chemistry. (d) SEM and TEM images of (PEA) 4 BiAgBr 8 based microplates; schematic diagram and output characteristics of these microplates-based FET (Ref. 44). Reproduced with permission from Wang et al., Chem. Commun. 56, 7917-7920 (2020). Copyright 2020 Royal Society of Chemistry. 
 FIG. 9 . 9 FIG. 9. (a) Schematic illustration of the vacuum deposited (PEA) 2 SnI 4 transistors with the plot of thicknesses of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 , PEAI, and SnI 2 films as a function of temperature, (b) scheme of the OTS-SAM-treated perovskite structure, and (c) output and transfer characteristics of a 50 nm thick vacuum-deposited (PEA) 2 SnI 4 (Ref. 135). Reproduced from Matsushima et al., J. Appl. Phys. 120, 233301 (2016), with the permission of AIP Publishing. 
 FIG. 10 . 10 FIG. 10. (a) Schematic of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 perovskite phototransistors, (b) transfer curve (V ds ¼ À40 V) in the dark and under different intensities of irradiation (Ref. 42). Reproduced with permission from Chen et al., Adv. Optical Mater. 5, 1600539 (2016). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (c) Graphene is mechanically exfoliated, after that source and drain electrodes are deposited, and finally the graphene channel is covered by 2D perovskite sheet and (d) photoresponse of the phototransistor at different levels of V g and under different levels of illumination, and stability for 75 days (Ref. 138). Reproduced with permission from Zhao et al., Joule 2, 2133-2144 (2018). Copyright 2018 Elsevier. 
 FIG. 11 . 11 FIG. 11. (a) Schematic of the halide ion movement in 2D perovskite films with n ¼ 10 and 1 (Ref. 157). Reproduced with permission from Shi et al., Nano Select 2, 1661-1681 (2021). Copyright 2021 American Chemical Society. (b) Mobility of (PEA) 2 SnI 4 with different temperatures (Ref. 114). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Appl. Phys. Express 10, 024103 (2017). Copyright 2017 AIP Publishing. (c) Temperature-dependent (ranging from 80 to 150 K) transport measurements of 2D FETs with Au as electrodes, with transfer characteristics from 160 to 220 K (arrows indicate the sweep direction of gate voltage) (Ref. 100). Reproduced with permission from Liu et al., Adv. Funct. Mater. 31, 2005662 (2020). Copyright 2020 John Wiley and Sons. 
 FIG. 12 . 12 FIG. 12. (a) Output and transfer characteristics of NH 3 I-SAM treated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 transistors (Ref. 39). Reproduced with permission from Matsushima et al., Adv. Mater. 28, 10275-10281 (2016). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (b) Long term stability of hole mobilities of the BGTC FET devices based on (PEA) 2 SnI 4 and (4Tm) 2 SnI 4 (Ref. 38). Reproduced with permission from Gao et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141, 15577 À 15585 (2019). Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. (c) Investigating the storage stability of unencapsulated (PEA) 2 SnI 4 and BDASnI 4 þNH 4 SCN/BAI FETs (Ref. 175). Reproduced with permission from Qiu et al., Adv. Mater. 35, 2305648 (2023). Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons. (d) XPS spectrum of Au from the polarized MAPbBr 3 single crystal device, electrochemical response after poling was characterized using ToF-SIMS: section mapping as a function of depth; green, red, and blue represent Au, Pb, and Si, respectively (Ref. 122). Reproduced with permission from Wang et al., Adv. Mater. 31, 1902618 (2019). Copyright 2019 John Wiley and Sons. 
 
 
 TABLE I . I Summary of 2D perovskite FETs. .159,160  Extended bias stress can hamper device operation, resulting in lower charge-carrier mobility, reduced ON-state source-drain current, a shift in the threshold voltage, elevated OFFstate current, and pronounced hysteresis in the transfer characteristics. extended duration Perovskite composition Dielectrics Source and drain Device geometry Temp. (K) l h (cm 2 V À1 s À1 ) l e (cm 2 V À1 s À1 ) I on / off Year Reference (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 0.62 10 4 59 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 1.4 129 (4-FPEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 0.48 10 5 129 (3-FPEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 0.51 129 (2-FPEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 0.24 129 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Pd BGBC (thin film) RT 0.5 10 5 140 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 Polyimide Au BGBC (thin film) RT 2.6 10 6 107 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 /OTS Au BGTC (thin film RT 0.78 10 5 136 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGBC (thin film) RT 2.5 10 5 39 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 5.7 10 5 39 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 Cytop Au TGTC (thin film) RT 15 10 6 39 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 Cytop Au/Ag/Al TGTC (thin film) RT 0.6/1.1/1.5 10 3 -10 4 123 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 0.78 10 5 135 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 Cytop Au TGTC (thin film) RT 26 114 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 0.76-1.2 10 3 42 BA 2 PbI 4 SiO 2 Ag BGBC (microplate) 77K 1.25 10 2 -10 6 43 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 (PEA) 2 PbCl 4 (PEA) 2 PbBr 4 (PEA) 2 PbI 4 P(VDF-TrFE) PVA/CL-PVP PVA/CL-PVP PVA/CL-PVP Au Au Au Au BGTC (thin film) BGTC (thin film) BGTC (thin film) BGTC (thin film) RT RT RT RT 0.04 5.33 Â 10 À2 8.51 Â 10 À2 1.43 Â 10 À1 10 5 45 134 134 134 (PEA) 2 PbI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 114-363 95-731 141 (4Tm) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 2.32 38 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 0.11 142 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 PVA/CL-PVP Au BGTC (thin film) RT 0.3 10 2 -10 3 142 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au/MoOx BGTC (thin film) RT 7.9 10 5 117 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au/MoOx BGBC RT 50 132 (exfoliated crystal) (PEA) 2 SnI 4 / SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 1.5 10 5 128 Semi-CNT (PEA) 2 SnI 4 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) RT 3.5 41 (PEA) 2 SnI 4 (PEA) 4 BiAgBr 8 SiO 2 SiO 2 Au BGTC (thin film) BGBC (microplate) RT RT 3.8 1.66 Â 10 À5 10 6 139 44 (BA) 2( MA) nÀ1 SiO 2 Au BGTC (single crystal) 150 K 0.5 100 Pb n I 3nþ1 (BA) 2 SnI 4 (R/S-MBA) 2 PbI 4 (BA) 2 (MA) 3 Pb 4 I 13 PVA/CL-PVP SiO 2 SiO 2 Au Au Cr BGTC (thin film) BGBC (thin film) BGBC (thin film) 77-300 K 77-300 K 2.9-2.7 Â 10 À7 1.52 RT 5.73 Â 10 À3 10 4 143 144 131 BDASnI 4 PVA/CL-PVP Au BGTC (thin film) RT 0.58 10 4 130 
 Slavney et al. utilized a partly fluorinated aromatic spacer to synthesize (F-PEA) 2 (MA) 2 Pb 3 I 10 , where F-PEA represents 4-FC 6 H 4 (CH 2 ) 2 NH 3 þ
Paper #: 428_2

Sign In Sign In The Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org Explore AIP Publishing and our portfolio by logging into your account profile. Access published articles, information about our partnerships, individual publications, and submit your next manuscript.
Searching the Platform From the homepage you can conduct a basic, advanced, or citation search across our content platform. 
 Search Results When search results appear, you can: • Filter by format, topic, subject, or journal   In the left-hand column, you can view the cover image, jump to a specific type of article, or view articles by topic. 
 Accessing an Article Institutional customers access content via registered IP ranges. If you try to view content from an unauthorized IP address, you will be asked to select your method of access as shown here. If you do not have access through your institution, you have the option to log in as an individual subscriber, purchase standard PPV, or view the article via Open Athens or Shibboleth. 
 Sign In 
 Viewing an Article IP authenticated users can access articles without creating a profile. However to benefit from all tools available we encourage users to create a profile. From an article, users can: • Save searches • Sign up for RSS feeds • View in a split screen • Download an article as a PDF • Sign up for journal alerts • View author affiliations and ORCID, where provided • View and download article citations • Add to your "favorites" • "Share" the article through social media and Reddit • View article metrics 
 • Access related articles Most articles are accessible as HTML or PDF. If only one format is available, the navigation bar will be updated to reflect the version offered. If available, supplementary data will be displayed in the left navigation. 
 Article Icons The blue circle icons next to certain article titles indicate if it is a: • Featured Article • Editor's Pick • Scilight A Scilight, a science highlight, is a professional summary of significant developments in a particular field of research. The articles that are chosen for Scilight are recommended by the research-active editors of AIP Publishing's journals. 
 Sign In 
 Article Figures & Split Screen Option Select "views" to toggle between "figures & tables" and "article contents". Article "figures & tables" can be downloaded directly as a PowerPoint presentation with citations or as a High-res image. The newly added split screen feature offers readers a way to read an article and view the figures, references, and related content alongside each other. 
 Article Metrics & Citations When available, article metrics can be viewed by selecting "View Metrics" in the upper right-corner of the page. As articles receive "views" and "citations" they will be calculated and updated daily. (Note: article metrics are cumulative from 12/13/2016 onwards). 
 Sign In Sign In 
 Sign In Article citations can be viewed by selecting "Web of Science" or "Crossref" 
 Related Content A list of related content is found to the right of the article under "Related Content". 
 Sharing an Article Click on the share button to share an article via Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or LinkedIn. 
 Sign In Sign In 10 Navigating Books Our books are fully integrated with our journals and are designed to help researchers at every stage of their career to discover new developments, investigate new techniques, and explore key concepts in emerging areas of science. 
 Select the book type to view titles within each category Accessing the Books Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org/books Browse: Access our books by publication date, type, or author 
 Book Title Page The title page offers an easy to navigate overview with a description, short links to the book information, access options, and metrics. 
 Buy this Book: purchase a PDF version of this book Abstract: read the book abstract 
 PDF: download individual book chapters Share, Tools, Cite: share via social media or Reddit, and download citation information. Buy Print: offers individual an option to purchase a personal softcover copy of this book myBook: offers readers at institutions with an active license an exclusive option to purchase a discounted B&W copy • Publishers: Learn about AIP Publishing and our publishing partners • Publications: View our journals, Physics Today magazine, conference proceedings and our books • Special Topics: Access the latest special topics across our publications • Authors: View author resources and learn about publishing • Librarians: View librarian resources and learn about access options • About: Learn about our mission Most Recent: View some of the most recently published articles across our journal portfolio Submit your article: Find the right journal to share your latest discovery worldwide Sign up for Alerts: register for journal and topic alerts to be delivered right to your inbox • Search box: Search the platform by keyword, phrase, DOI, ISBN, author name, etc. • Magnifying glass: Click to run your search • Advanced search: simultaneously search by several parameters to tailor your results • Citation search: Search by journal, volume and page number Sign In Basic Search: search the platform by a specific phrase or term Advanced Search: the search options below will appear, allowing you to utilize more than one search term or phrase, and apply filters to your search. 
 Article Search by Citation from Journal HomepageFrom the top of the journal homepage, you can search by citation. For the most accurate results, fill in the journal name, volume and page number. 
 
 • Sort by relevance or publication date Sign In Sign In Citation Search: select the journal name and include the volume and page number. 
 After clicking on "Browse" you are directed to the current issue and can navigate to previously published issues. Here you can view an article's abstract or the article in full. Browse: Viewing the Latest Issue From the navigation bar you can access: • Home: navigate to journal homepage by clicking here • Browse: view the latest issue • Collections: view special issues, press releases, tutorials, and more Learn about the journal and the editorial board, and access the current issue • For Authors: information on preparing and submitting a manuscript • About: learn about the journal, its scope, editorial board and development team, and more. Submit your article Sign up for journal alerts Select articles of interest View some of the most recently published articles Access "most read" articles Sign In
