Paper #: 12308_1
Title: Numerical simulation of a highly efficient perovskite solar cell based on FeSi 2 photoactive layer
The primary aim of this work is to investigate the use iron di-silicide (FeSi 2 ) as a photoactive layer in order to achieve superior performance in the solar cell architecture-ITO/TiO 2 /FeSi 2 /CuSCN/Ni. The optimum thickness of the absorber layer was found to be 1000 nm, which gave optimal properties of the proposed cell-a short-circuit current density (J sc ) of 51.41 mAm -2 , an open-circuit voltage (V oc ) of 0.93 V, a fill factor (FF) of 77.99%, and power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 37.17%. The introduction of an ultrathin interfacial layer between the electron transport layer (ETL), the perovskite interface, and the hole transport layer (HTL) enhanced the electrical output of the proposed solar cell. The J sc increased to 51.86 mAcm -2 , V oc rose to 0.97 V, while FF and PCE increased to 82.86% and 41.84%, respectively. Accordingly, the proposed cell architecture is promising and can be introduced into the manufacturing workflow for commercial applications. Moreover, because of its exceptional photon absorption capabilities, FeSi 2 is a potentially excellent photoactive material for solar cell fabrication. The detailed findings of this study have therefore indicated that high-performance FeSi 2 -based solar can be achieved in future.
INTRODUCTION In order to accelerate green energy transition and positive climate change action, renewable energy resources that are sustainable and eco-friendly must be sought.  [1]  For this reason, the sun has been identified as an immense energy resource that can supply all of the world's energy demands, which is not only clean but also reliable and secure.  [2]  Solar energy can either be used directly or converted into electricity.  [3] [4]  Notable improvements have been realized in the photovoltaic (PV) solar PCE, which producing PV solar cells that are cost-effective and reliable, these challenges can be overcome. Recently, FeSi 2 -based absorber layers have gained a lot of attention because they offer greater thermal stability as well as excellent optoelectronic characteristics.  [8]  Moreover, the proposed solar cell model can operate with optimum efficiency under extreme temperatures of between 250 and above 500 K. Because of increased solar spectrum absorption at longer wavelengths, the inclusion of the FeSi 2 layer to the cell architecture has significantly improved the device's QE and PCE. This study introduces a novel approach by exploring FeSi 2 as the absorber material within the unique solar cell architecture. While perovskite-based solar cells have dominated discussions for their efficiency and affordability, incorporating FeSi 2 presents a fresh perspective in photovoltaic technology. Through meticulous analysis using SCAPS-1D,  [9]  the research systematically examines various factors influencing the performance of FeSi 2 based PSCs. This comprehensive investigation not only provides valuable insights into optimizing their electrical characteristics but also introduces an innovative strategy of incorporating an ultrathin interfacial layer to enhance solar cell efficiency. These advancements not only validate the feasibility of FeSi 2 based PSCs for commercial applications but also underscore the importance of continual exploration of novel materials and architectures to further enhance solar cell performance and meet the rising energy demands while minimizing environmental impact. Engaging in discussions about the latest advancements in SCAPS-1D and FeSi 2 is an excellent strategy for keeping abreast of the most recent progress in photovoltaic technology. One intriguing avenue to explore involves integrating machine learning algorithms into SCAPS-1D. This integration could streamline device design and optimization processes by leveraging machine learning to identify optimal material combinations, doping profiles, and device architectures tailored to specific efficiency targets or application requirements. Furthermore, extending SCAPS-1D to model novel materials and interfaces opens up exciting possibilities for the next-generation solar cells.  [10]  For instance, the software could be adapted to simulate PSCs, organic solar cells, and tandem solar cell architectures, thereby broadening its applicability in exploring cutting-edge technologies. In parallel, advancements in FeSi 2 offer promising prospects for enhancing solar cell efficiency. Researchers have delved into doping and defect engineering strategies to improve FeSi 2 light absorption properties and carrier transport efficiency. Computational modeling plays a crucial role in identifying promising dopant candidates, subsequently verifying their effects through experimental validation. Moreover, investigating heterojunction formation between FeSi 2 and other semiconductor materials holds significant potential for creating high-performance solar cells.  [11]  This entails exploring materials with complementary bandgaps and carrier transport properties to FeSi 2 , paving the way for innovative device architectures. Moreover, the utilization of nanostructured FeSi 2 , such as nanowires or nanoparticles, presents a compelling avenue for enhancing solar cell performance.  [12]  Nano structuring offers advantages in improving light absorption and carrier collection efficiency, thereby contributing to overall device efficiency enhancement. Recent years have witnessed significant progress in high-performance solar cells, primarily aimed at optimizing efficiency, stability, and cost-effectiveness. Perovskite solar cells have attracted substantial attention because of their potential for high efficiency and low production costs.  [13]  Efforts have focused on increasing their stability and scalability for commercial use. Techniques such as adjusting compositions, modifying interfaces, and using encapsulation methods aim to bolster their durability and long-term effectiveness.  [14]  Tandem Solar Cells: By combining different materials to capture a wider sunlight spectrum, tandem solar cells have displayed promising efficiency improvements.  [15]  Multi-Junction Solar Cells: Originally designed for space applications, multi-junction solar cells have been adapted for terrestrial purposes. They incorporate multiple semiconductor materials to capture various light wavelengths, boosting efficiency.  [16]  Passivating contacts employing perovskite-silicon or other innovative materials, such as polymers, have been developed to reduce energy losses at the interface between different cell layers. These contacts enhance efficiency by minimizing recombination losses. Advances in nanotechnology enable material manipulation at the nanoscale, which improves light absorption, carrier transport, and charge collection. Nanostructured materials such as quantum dots and nanowires are considered promising for enhancing solar cell performance.  [17]  Emerging photovoltaic technologies that are considered promising include dye-sensitized solar cells, perovskite solar cells, and organic solar cells. The stability and efficiency of these solar cells depend chiefly on their componentry and device engineering.  [18]  Because of their varied qualities, polymers can be employed to modify the device parts and framework of these solar cells specifically. Polymers can be added to perovskite solar cells as additives to change the nucleation along with crystallization processes in the perovskite films.  [19]  In order to improve carrier separation efficiency and lower recombination, polymers can also be employed as interface layers, hole transfer materials, and electron transfer materials.  [20]  Interfaces and encapsulants serve as protective barriers, preventing corrosive elements such as moisture or oxygen from infiltrating the material, thus lowering the chances of corrosion and oxidation.  [21]  By modifying interfaces, the reactivity of the material's surface with external substances can be controlled, therefore limiting chemical reactions that might harm its qualities. Moreover, encapsulants contribute to mechanical stability, reduce physical strain, and prevent cracks or damage that could compromise the material's ability to passivate.  [22]  Ultimately, these elements significantly reinforce the resilience, strength, and efficiency of passivating materials by ensuring their optimal functionality under harsh conditions of heat, moisture, and oxygen. It is well-established that in just 1.5 days, the sun produces 1.7 × 10 22 J, which is equivalent to 3 trillion barrels of fossil fuel that could be produced if all of the world's reserves were used up completely.  [23]  The world's energy demand is approximately 4.6 × 10 20 J annually. It is estimated that, in just one hour, the sun provides all of this energy.  [24]  Therefore, the sun's energy is sufficient to satisfy all of humanity's energy demands on its own.  [25]  The sun's remarkable energy output and adaptability make it particularly attractive to replace petro-based fuels. Heat, electricity, and solar fuels can all be produced from solar energy.  [26]  For instance, photosynthesis is a natural process whereby solar energy can be transformed into solar fuel because plants store solar energy in the form of fuel-like carbohydrates through photosynthetic chemical reactions.  [27]  Furthermore, metabolization of the protons and electrons generated during photosynthesis can result in the production of H 2 and CH 4 -components that have the potential for energy production. The amount of solar energy currently harnessed is extremely low, with only 0.015% of it utilized in the production of electricity, 0.3% being utilized in heating, and 11% being used in natural photosynthesis of biomass materials.  [28]  On the other hand, fossil fuels account for between 80% and 85% of the world's energy needs.  [29]  Fossil fuels, nevertheless, are not eco-friendly due to noxious gas emissions such as CO 2 , SO x , and NO x in addition to being finite. Therefore, in order to ensure a secure and environmentally friendly future for humanity, alternative energy sources must be sought. Due to its enormous size, widespread availability, versatility, and environmental friendliness, solar energy presents the finest solution among all other potential renewable energy resources in this respect.  [30]  Early studies on FeSi 2 were primarily concerned with its usage in light emitting diodes (LEDs), but it was noted that FeSi 2 exhibited robust material for photovoltaic (PV) applications, with a theoretical PCE of 16%-23%.  [31]  A band gap of 0.85-0.87 eV,  [32]  appropriate for absorbing solar light, a remarkable optical absorption coefficient of approximately 105 cm -1 at 1 eV, naturally abundant, and environmentally eco-friendly . The natural abundance of FeSi 2 makes it promising for large-scale PV production, although the large light absorption coefficient makes it possible to fabricate ultrathin film FeSi 2 solar cells with minimum strict requirements for material quality.  [33]  In tandem cells, FeSi 2 has the possibility of being integrated as a long wavelength light absorber alongside other wider bandgap semiconductors by taking advantage of its remarkable absorption efficiency for long wavelengths of up to 1450 nm photon energy.  [32]  In comparison to traditional solar cells, FeSi 2 -based solar cells offer better thermal stability, low toxicity, and excellent optoelectronic features, which have recently attracted a lot of attention.  [8]  Due to the rise in solar spectrum absorption at longer wavelengths, FeSi 2 layer's incorporation into the cell structure has significantly improved QE and PCE.  [34]  FeSi 2 based Solar Cells are increasingly essential in the global transition towards sustainable energy sources due to the impending depletion of fossil fuels.  [35]  By leveraging solar energy, FeSi 2 based PSCs present a promising solution to this challenge, offering a renewable alternative for electricity generation.  [36]  Additionally, the exceptional properties of FeSi 2 make it an appealing material for solar cell production, emphasizing its role in advancing efficient and sustainable energy conversion technologies. This work represents a considerable advancement in solar cell research, specifically focusing on perovskitebased solar cells incorporating FeSi 2 as the absorber material. The study underscores the growing interest in perovskite materials as alternatives to conventional siliconbased solar cells, highlighting their cost-effectiveness and efficiency. The integration of FeSi 2 signifies a departure from traditional materials, offering potential advantages in abundance, cost, and efficiency. The study employs SCAPS-1D simulations to comprehensively assess the proposed solar cell architecture, conducting optimization analyses to enhance performance through temperature, absorber thickness, and doping density adjustments. The introduction of an ultrathin interfacial layer to mitigate interface-related challenges further boosts device performance. Furthermore, the recognition of FeSi 2 as a promising photoactive material suggests a novel avenue for material exploration in photovoltaics, contributing to the diversification of materials used in solar cell technologies. The design and simulation of the model device is cost effective, ecofriendly, and chemically stable and inspires commercialization in the near future. 
 NUMERICAL SIMULATION METHODOLOGY Device optimization was initially performed without taking into account parasitic resistances-series and shunt resistances. Optimization was conducted under AM 1.5G (100 m Wcm -2 and one sun) spectral irradiation at 300 K using SCAPS-1D. For example, the experimental validation of the software was successfully carried out by Bencherif et al.  [37]  and the obtained simulated results was very close to what was obtained experimentally an indication that the simulator works optimally and replicates experimental data. In this simulation, the validation was done with reference the experimental work of Liu et al.  [38]  and the PCE (3.7%) was relatively lower than the theoretical PCE value (37.17%) reported in this study. With the help of SCAPS-1D software, several materials have been systematically tuned to offer better solar cell operating parameters.  [39]  After optimizing every parameter of the cell configuration proposed in this study, a robust PCE of 37.17% was achieved. 
 2.1 The architecture of the proposed solar cell Further to the planar n-i-p structure and regular structure within the field of organic solar cells, researchers in the PV community have heavily investigated the planar p-in heterojunction structure.  [47]  The reversed arrangement of ETLs and HTLs in a solar cell architecture is typically referred to as the inverted structure.  [48]  Figure  1a  presents the model solar cell device while Figure  1b  gives the corresponding band alignment. Typically, in device structure, the band alignment between each layer/interface considerably impacts the solar cell performance. According to Figure  1b , ITO and TiO 2 have higher energy than the absorber and this prevent electrons and holes from hopping. An exciton movement diagram typically represents the movement of exciton in a material. Excitons are quasiparticles consisting of an electron and a positively charged hole, created when an electron is excited to a higher energy state.  [49]  Different materials, such as organic semiconductors, quantum dots, or perovskites, exhibit varying excitonic behavior due to their unique electronic structures and properties.  [50]  Consequently, representations of exciton movement will be customized to the characteristics of the material and the specific conditions under investigation.  [51]  Understanding exciton behavior is critical for optimizing the performance of devices such as solar cells, LEDs, and photodetectors. By controlling exciton transport, minimizing losses due to recombination, and directing their fate towards the desired pathways, engineers and researchers aim to optimize device efficiency and functionality of optoelectronic materials. It can be observed that there is no possible exciton recombination because the HTL is long, and it blocks electrons from jumping.  [52]  The two layers, the ETL and the HTL are essential for increasing PCE and preserving air stability.  [53]  However, both conventional and p-i-n inverted-type perovskite solar cells suffer significant problems with device stability. The device with the configuration ITO/TiO 2 /FeSi 2 /CuSCN/Ni was investigated in this study. The transparent conducting window layer is made of indium-doped tin oxide (ITO), and the back contact is made of Nickel. The ETL of the proposed cell architecture is made of titanium dioxide (TiO 2 ), while HTL is made of copper (I) thiocyanate (CuSCN). The thickness of ETL, HTL, and the absorber layers varied systematically in order to optimize for maximum electrical output features. The operating temperature ranged between 260 and 500 K. FeSi 2 -based third-generation thinfilm solar cells are promising because of their excellent optoelectronic characteristics, abundance in the earth's crust, and non-toxicity of their component materials.  [42]  The numerical simulation program (SCAPS-1D) was developed at the Department of Electronics and Information Systems (ELIS) at the University of Gent, Belgium.  [54]  The solar cell capacitance simulator (SCAPS-1D) has been used in this study to perform numerical simulations of the FeSi 2 thin film-based solar cell. The software is built around determining the basic semiconductor equations, specifically the Poisson equation as well as the continuity equations for holes and electrons. It computes the carrier transport in one dimension, the recombination profile, as well as the band diagram under steady-state conditions. Equations are presented as reported elsewhere in the literature.  [55]  This section will describe how to simulate a proposed perovskite as a solar cell and describe the workings of a perovskite solar cell. Several micro, thin polycrystalline devices, including photonic structures, can all be modeled using SCAPS-1D. The Poisons equations are herein presented-Equations (  1 )-(3). 𝜕 2 𝜑 𝜕x 2 + 𝜌 ∈ [𝜌(x) -n(x) + N D -N A + 𝜌p -𝜌n] = 0 (1) Equation (  1 ) is the hole continuity equation, while Equation (  2 ) is the electron continuity equation; 1 q dJp dx = GoP (x) -R (x) (2) 1 q dJp dx = GoP (x) + R (x) (3) Here, the electrostatic potential, the dielectric constant, the electron charge, and the density of acceptor-donor electrons are all present. Hole (electron) concentration, density, and current density are denoted as p(n), p(n), and Jp(n), respectively. According to Equation (3), GoP is the optical generation rate, whereas R is the net recombination resulting from direct and indirect recombination. The FF, one of four electrical outcomes that show how much the J-V curve deviates from a perfect square, is used to assess the solar cell's performance and quality. According to Equation (4), the FF is the ratio of the device's maximum power extraction (Pmax) to its maximum power generating capability.  [56]   FF = Pmax V oc × J sc (4) Another essential parameter, PCE, represents the capacity to convert solar energy into electricity. It is defined as the relationship between the maximum generated output (Pmax) divided by the input optical power (Pin), as expressed by Equation (5).  PCE = Pmax Pin = FF × V oc × J sc Pin (5) 
 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 Absorption characteristics of the proposed solar cell components An absorption coefficient sharply edges out in semiconductor materials. For the solar cell to harness a sizable amount of light, it is often placed in an open area, which allows a wide spectrum of light to strike it.  [57]  An electron cannot be excited across a band gap if the energy of the incident light is less than the band gap energy of the semiconductor material.  [58] [59]  Both the substance and the wavelength of the light being absorbed affect the absorption coefficient.  [60]  Equation (6) expresses the connection between the absorption coefficient and the wavelength of photons the material absorbs. ∝= 4𝜋𝑘 1 𝜆 (6) where λ is the photon wavelength in nanometers, k is the extinction coefficient, and α is the absorption coefficient. The absorption coefficient is measured in cm -1 . The visible light spectrum, which spans 400-700 nm, is absorbed mainly by solar panels. On the other hand, infrared radiation wavelength is too long and weak to excite an electron, but ultraviolet radiation is short and strong enough to be absorbed. CuSCN, FeSi 2 , and TiO 2 exhibit distinct absorption coefficients and photon absorption capacities (Figure  2 ). Photons of different wavelengths are presumably more easily absorbed by FeSi 2 since it has the largest absorption coefficient. However, as the wavelength of the photon increases, the absorption coefficient of each layer drops. CuSCN and TiO 2 layers have comparable absorption properties but at a reduced level in contrast to FeSi 2 perovskite. ITO has the least absorption capability and this important feature of a front contact material. The absorption coefficient establishes the depth to which light of a given wavelength can pass through a material before being absorbed.  [61]  Light is only weakly absorbed by materials with low absorption coefficients; however, if the material is sufficiently thin, it will appear transparent at that wavelength. 
 Quantum efficiency and J-V characteristics The QE and current versus voltage curves of photovoltaic cells is shown in Figure  3 , demonstrating that, from about 300 to 360 nm, the QE increases with increasing wavelength. It can be observed that the QE is constant between 360 and 900 nm. CuSCN is used as the HTL, while FeSi 2 is employed as the photoactive layer. The theoretical PCE for the proposed cell architecture was found to be 37.17%, while V oc was found to be 0.93 V, FF was 77.99%, and the J sc of 51.41 mAcm -2 was recorded. The QE value increases from 88% to 100% between 300 and 360 nm, after which it remains constant at 100% through the simulation wavelength range. On the other hand, the photoactive layer (FeSi 2 ) is unique as it achieves 100% QE even at very long wavelengths beyond 900 nm. The photovoltaic parameters J sc , V oc , and FF can be determined from Equations (7a) and (7b), respectively. V oc = nidK BT In ( J sc Jo ) (7a) FF = V oc - In (V oc + 0.72) V oc + 1 (7b) When the applied voltage changes during the J-V scans, the dynamic response current response remains constant at 51.41 mAcm -2 until the voltage is 0.6 V, after which the current decreases sharply to 40.67 mAcm -2 at 0.8 V (cf. Figure  3 ). 
 Variation of perovskite thickness with J-V characteristics and quantum efficiency Figure  4a  shows the variation of the current-voltage characteristics of the proposed cell configuration with the thickness of the perovskite, whereas Figure  4b  depicts the variation of quantum yield with the wavelength of the illumination source. From Figure  4a , it can be noted that the optimal thickness of the proposed solar cell architecture is 1.0 µm. Below 0.9 µm, the current density, J sc , begins to decrease with increasing voltage. Similarly, the QE of the solar cell is maximum between 0.8 µm and 1.0 µm according to Figure  4b . Clearly, there is an optimal thickness where the performance of the proposed cell exhibits robust performance efficiency. For instance, for the J-V curve, the best thickness for a better J-V curve is 1.0 µm, which is consistent with the thickness for maximum QE. Since the absorber thickness largely determines the device's efficiency, the cell was simulated to ascertain how variations in FeSi 2 thickness affected the device's V oc , J sc , FF, and PCE. FeSi 2 thickness was changed from 0.3 to 1.0 µm while maintaining the same values for the other layer properties. The outcomes are displayed in Figure  4 . ITO, TiO 2 , and FeSi 2 thickness optimization were the main goals of the simulation to gain insight of the performance of FeSi 2 as an absorber. Maximizing the thickness from every layer has an impact on the overall performance of a perovskite solar cell, in particular, the performance of the absorber. The optimal absorber thickness was achieved by maintaining the ETL, HTL, and ITO thicknesses at their ideal levels while modifying the absorber thickness. So, it is important to consider how thickness affects the FF, V oc , J sc , and PCE values of perovskite solar cells. The device's performance is significantly influenced by the thickness of the absorber layer. Variations in absorber layer thickness have an impact on the diffusion length of carriers because when the absorber layer thickness is too thin, the absorption rate falls, which ultimately results in a decrease in efficiency due to the recombination of excitons. Similarly, if the thickness of the absorber layer is too high, the excitons may not be able to reach the charge collection layers, and this would lead to a reduction in PCE. The ideal thickness of both layers in the solar cell device relies on several factors, such as the specific materials utilized, the type of solar cell (organic, perovskite, silicon-based, and tandem), and the overall cell architecture.  [62]  Scientists and manufacturers conduct extensive tests and adjustments to identify the most effective thicknesses for ETL and HTL to achieve optimal performance in a particular solar cell design. Moreover, distinct solar cell technologies exhibit varying optimal thickness ranges for their  ETL and HTL layers.  [63]  For instance, perovskite solar cells might require different ideal thicknesses compared to organic-based ones because of their differing material characteristics and how they transport charge carriers. While ETL and HTL thicknesses significantly impact solar cell performance, determining the optimal thicknesses involves balancing charge carrier transport, recombination rates, and cell efficiency specific to the solar cell design and material composition.  [64]  Notably, for the proposed solar cell, there was no effect on J-V characteristics with the thickness of the ETL material (Figure  5a ). Similarly, according to Figure  5b , no effect was witnessed on the J-V characteristics when the thickness of the HTL was varied. This would suggest that the thickness of both HTL and ETL are independent of the electrical output of the proposed solar cell architecture. As the absorber layer thickness increases, the amount of light absorbed increases  [65]  ; hence, PCE and J sc increase. However, as FF decreases, more charge carriers are drawn closer to the surface, which acts as a recombination site, thus improving PCE. This study asserts that the materials and methodology employed to boost the performance of perovskite solar cells are essential. Since the main concern is optimizing the solar energy captured, manufacturers need to thoroughly understand how to make the best use of interface engineering materials, including well-designed ETL and HTL materials. 
 The band diagram The calculated energy band diagram for the modeled solar cell is shown in Figure  6 . The points close to the interface of the variously doped bulk layers are where the energy levels in the bands begin to exhibit bending.  [66]  The band diagram's main characteristics are the energy band gap (Eg), electron affinity (χ), doping level, and defect level of the layers that form the proposed solar cell architecture. The strongly doped p-and n-type layers in the p-i-n structure of the cell create a high drift field inside an absorber layer  like that of the nanocrystalline p-i-n structure using the Fermi-level difference.  [66]  In thin film solar cell device technology, energy band alignment is essential since it unveils the transport mechanism of photogenerated holes and electrons within the device. In general, the transport of photogenerated holes and electrons to respective electrodes (HTL and HTL) occurs via drift and diffusion process. At the interfaces, major recombination of photogenerated charges can easily occur and thus reduce the performance of the device. The interfacial defects can be caused by mismatch of the band alignment of the components due to variation in the deposition methods of the materials during device fabrication process.  [67]  Essentially, two major configurations of band alignment exist, that is, cliff-like and spike-like types of band offsets at interfaces.  [67] [68] [69]  For instance, for cliff-like type, the conduction band offset (CBO) of the absorber layer is higher than that of the buffer layer (negative CBO) while, for spike-like the conduction band edge is of the absorber is lower than that of the buffer layer (positive CBO).  [67, 70]  Figure  6  shows the spike-like type configuration CBO with a positive value of 1.24 eV between the FeSi 2 absorber and the TiO 2 (ETL), thus suppressing recombination of photogenerated charges at this interface. It has been established that the spike-like band offset is beneficial in the reduction of recombination and in partic-ular severe interfacial recombination.  [69, 71]  Meanwhile at the absorber/HTL interface, the valence band offset (VBO) was calculated to be -0.19 eV and cliff-like band offset configuration was exhibited in this device, thus facilitating effective hole transport at the interface and enhanced performance.  [70]  At the absorber/TiO 2 interface, the calculated VBO was about -2.06 eV which was sufficient to block holes, therefore, TiO 2 (ETL) is an effective hole blocking layer (HBL), hence reducing recombination of photogenerated holes with electrons in device structure. Similarly, the CBO at the absorber/CuSCN was determined to be +2.63 eV and was high enough to block the flow of photogenerated electrons, therefore impeding recombination. In this case, CuSCN (HTL) material is efficient at blocking electrons thus acting as electron blocking layer (EBL). The measured band gap energies from the band diagram for CuSCN, FeSi 2 , TiO 2 , and ITO were found to be 3.40, 0.88, 3.20, and 3.50 eV, respectively. These values were in agreement with the input values in Table  1  and indicate that the calculations were stable. Most photons will not have a photovoltaic effect if the band gap is too high, and if it is too low, most photons will have more energy than is required to excite electrons across the band gap, resulting in wasted energy.  [72]  For many interfaces, it is found that the energy band alignment obtained by the experiment closely matches TA B L E 1 The simulation input parameters for the proposed cell architecture. 
 Parameters CuSCN  [40] [41]  FeSi 2 [42-43]   TiO 2 [44-45]   ITO  [46]  Thickness (nm) Electron mobility, µ n (cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) 1 . 0 × 10 2 1.0 × 10 2 2.0 × 10 1 2.0 × 10 1 Hole mobility, µ p (cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) 2.5 × 10 theoretical predictions.  [73]  This makes these alignments, especially the theoretically expected alignments, the inherent alignments for a particular material combination. Due to the strong agreement between experiment and theory, it is possible to explore the interfacial characteristics of surfaces  [74]  regarding the contribution of vacancy compounds to the alignment of the energy bands. It is further demonstrated that the most crucial interfaces in FeSi 2 thin film solar cells are not particularly affected by how the layers are engineered.  [8]  Besides, the selection of appropriate conductive oxide coating (TCO) is key so as to enhance performance, therefore indium tin oxide (ITO) was utilized in this model for optimal light absorption which is essential.  [75]  From Figure  6 , E C , Ev, Ep, and Ef stand for the energy of the conduction band, valence band energy, Fermi energy level for holes, and Fermi energy level for electrons, respectively. As predictable at the heterojunction, the difference in the electron affinities of n-type and p-type semiconductors is what causes the ΔE C jump between their conduction bands.  [76]  Accordingly, the value of E V is -0.19 eV, indicating that when the n-type layer is lit, an energy barrier to charge collection in the p-type layer of holes is produced. On the other hand, the value of E C is +2.65 eV, suggesting that there is no energy barrier preventing the n-type layer from collecting electrons produced by the p-type layer during illumination. The built-in voltage, denoted by the symbol eVbi (+0.69 eV), was determined by considering Equation (  8 ) and compared with the one obtained by Mott-Schottky analysis in Figure  8 , where the two values was in agreement. eVib = EF n -EF P (8) In a spike-like band alignment configuration,  [69]  there exists a notable distinction in energy levels between the conduction band minimum (CBM) of the material situ-ated on the right side and that of the material on the left side. This discrepancy is observable in the accompanying Figure  6 , where the CBM of the left side material (Ev) registers at approximately -3.0 eV on the energy scale, while the CBM of the right-side material is positioned around -0.35 eV on the same scale. Consequently, this setup erects a barrier impeding the movement of electrons from the material on the left to that on the right. The suitability of such a band alignment is contingent upon the intended application of the device. In the context of devices like field-effect transistors (FETs), spikelike band alignments can prove beneficial. Specifically, they facilitate the creation of a depletion region, thereby enabling the modulation of the channel's conductance. Further insights gleaned from the image shed light on the intricacies of the band alignment. The valence band maximum (VBM) of the left side material (eV) is positioned at approximately -3.19 eV on the energy scale, while that of the right-side material (T) is situated around -0.16 eV. The discrepancy between the conduction band minimums (ΔEc) is estimated to be approximately 2.65 eV, whereas the difference between the valence band maximums (ΔEv) stands at about 0.19 eV. Additionally, the built-in voltage (eVbi) is calculated to be approximately 0.69 eV. 
 Mott-Schottky capacitance analysis The Mott-Schottky characteristics are critical in understanding semiconductor material characteristics, especially in photovoltaic devices such as solar cells. It is worth noting that FeSi 2 is not widely employed in mainstream solar cell technology due to its relatively lower efficiency compared to materials like silicon, cadmium telluride, or organic perovskites materials.  [77]  Nevertheless, exploring the Mott-Schottky characteristics within FeSi 2 solar cells offers valuable insights. FeSi 2 acts as a semiconductor with an indirect bandgap, showcasing intriguing electronic and magnetic properties, although its bandgap is not optimal for efficient sunlightto-electricity conversion in solar cell applications.  [78]  When delving into Mott-Schottky analysis in FeSi 2 solar cells, one can glean information about charge transport properties at the FeSi 2 and contacting material interface, typically a metal or transparent conductive oxide. This analysis involves measuring capacitance against bias voltage, elucidating charge carrier type and density within FeSi 2 , along with identifying interface traps or defects. Figure  7  depicts the correlation between voltage and the reciprocal of capacitance squared. The y-axis, labeled 1/C 2 , indicates that it represents the inverse square of capacitance measured in nano-farads per square centimeter. On the other hand, the x-axis, denoted as voltage (V), signifies the applied voltage to the system. Analyzing this graph for example, it could elucidate how alterations in voltage influence the system capacity to store electrical energy, as indicated by capacitance. The voltage range from -0.5 to 1 volt delineates the spectrum of applied voltages within the experiment or scenario being investigated. The y-axis scale, ranging from 0 to approximately 700, illustrates the corresponding values of the reciprocal of capacitance squared across this voltage spectrum. Comprehending the inverse square of capacitance entails acknowledging that capacitance is influenced by factors such as conductor dimensions, configuration, and the distance between conductors. The inverse square relationship implies that changes in capacitance are inversely proportional to the square of the distance between conductors or electrodes. This foundational principle holds significance across diverse domains, including electronics, electrical engineering, and physics. Understanding Mott-Schottky characteristics holds promise for optimizing FeSi 2 solar cell design and performance. Manipulating doping density or engineering interface properties can enhance charge carrier collection efficiency and mitigate recombination losses, thereby boosting overall solar cell efficiency. Nonetheless, FeSi 2 solar cells encounter challenges such as low carrier mobility, relatively high recombination rates, and limited sunlight absorption due to their bandgap.  [79]  Overcoming these hurdles is essential to enhance the efficiency and viability of FeSi 2 -based photovoltaic devices. In essence, although FeSi 2 solar cells are not as prevalent as other photoactive layer types, understanding their Mott-Schottky characteristics offers insights for performance improvement and potential exploration in photovoltaic technologies. However, significant research and development endeavors are essential to surmount current limitations associated with FeSi 2 -based solar cells. 
 Effect of capacitance on the electrical characteristics of the solar cell device One of the most dynamic characteristics of solar cells is their capacitance, which can reveal important details about the condition and the quality of the cell. However, determining this parameter is not easy because highaccuracy instrumentation such as electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is needed.  [80] [81]  The frequency of the damped oscillation that happens when the inductor is connected to the solar cell can be used to determine its capacitance. Higher voltages induce a leakage current to flow into the module, hence lowering the capacity and making the capacitance variation more noticeable.  [82]  By utilizing the splitting of the output characteristics brought about by the charge and discharge effects, capacitance can be determined. In reverse-biased diodes, this phenomenon is important.  [83]  The transition capacitance sometimes referred to as the junction capacitance, and the diffusion capacitance, which is connected in parallel, combine to form the capacitance of a solar cell.  [84]  The solar cell capacitance is dependent on temperature, frequency, irradiance level, and the cell voltage. The solar cell function of the bias voltage exhibits two regions in terms of capacitance variation: the first region, which stretches from reverse to forward bias until the knee voltage shows a slight increasing slope in capacitance; the second region, which starts above the knee voltage, shows an exponential increase in capacitance.  [85]  The solar cell capacitance increases in response to the rise in irradiation and temperature. A capacitance value that falls between 0.0 × 10 2 and 1.0 × 10 6 Hz is known as the layer of depletion capacitance plateau. The progressive decrease in capacitance at the high-frequency area could potentially be attributed to the flaws' dispersion in the mid-gap regions.  [56]  Additionally, photo-generated carrier transport, Fermi level splitting, PV performance, and charge carrier recombination at the interface are all impacted by capacitance.  [86]  Conversely, Figure  8  demonstrates how the conductance increases dramatically at high frequencies, and also shows a decrease in conductance with an increase in frequency. The graph provided illustrates the electrical characteristics of a material, potentially a semiconductor, across varying frequencies. The x-axis denotes Frequency (Hz) while the y-axis encompasses conductance (S cm -2 ) and capacitance (nF cm -2 ). At lower frequencies, the conductance rises sharply while capacitance decreases steadily (Figure  8 ). Conversely, with increasing frequency, there's a noticeable decline in capacitance whereas conductance increases before leveling off at high frequencies of between 6.0 × 10 5 Hz and 1.0 × 10 6 Hz. This representation is instrumental in understanding how a material reacts to an electric field across different frequencies. Semiconductors characterized by their ability to conduct electricity under specific conditions, exhibit frequency-dependent conductive behavior. Accordingly, Figure  8  elucidates the intricate interplay between conductivity and capacitance concerning varying frequencies, shedding light on the material's electrical properties and potential applications in electronic devices. 
 Nyquist plot impedance characteristics The Nyquist plot, commonly used in electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, serves as a valuable tool in analyzing the impedance behavior of solar cells.  [87]  Specifically, for all-inorganic FeSi 2 perovskite solar cells, the Nyquist plot typically exhibits a semicircle at higher frequencies representing charge transfer and recombination processes, followed by a linear portion at lower frequencies corresponding to diffusive charge transport. The diameter of the semicircle offers insights into charge transfer resistance, crucial for efficient charge extraction, while the slope of the linear portion indicates the diffusion coefficient of charge carriers within the device. By interpreting Nyquist plots and correlating their features with device performance metrics, such as efficiency and stability, researchers can refine fabrication processes to enhance overall solar cell performance.  [87]  Figure  9  shows the Nyquist plot which conventionally depicts the real part of impedance (Z real ) versus the imaginary part of impedance (Z imag ) across various frequencies. Impedance signifies a system's opposition to alternating current flow. By analyzing Nyquist plots, one can discern the electrical attributes of a system, including resistance, capacitance, and inductance. The Nyquist plot configuration offers insights into the system behavior. For instance, a semicircular pattern in the plot often signifies a straightforward resistor-capacitance (RC circuit). Conversely, a more intricate plot suggests a system characterized by multiple time constants or non-ideal behavior. 
 Effect of temperature on electrical parameters The performance of the solar cell device can be affected by the operational temperature especially in the outdoor environment where the solar panel are mounted. In order to explore the influence of temperature on the photovoltaic performance of the modeled device, the operational temperature was varied from 280 to 400 K and the electrical output dependence on temperature are presented in Figure  10 . The V oc of the device decreased drastically as a function of increasing temperature (Figure  10a ). The decrease in V oc could be attributed to increased vibration of the electrons which leads to an increase in resistance, hence, suppressing the conductivity of charges. From Figure  10b , there was a sharp increase in J sc from a temperature of 260 to about 340 K, followed by a gradual continuous increase up to 380 K, before it plateaued at 400 K. The general increase in the J sc of the device as the temperature increases can be credited to the augmentation in the number of thermally generated charge carriers. However, beyond a specific temperature, factors such as heightened recombination rates and decreased carrier mobility may contribute to a decrease in J sc . Meanwhile, the PCE (Figure  10c ) of the device decreased with an increase in the operation temperature. This can be ascribed to increased recombination brought about by collisions of electrons due to vibrations as the temperature increases. In contrast, there was a gradual increase in FF as the temperature increases from 260 to about 360 K, before starting to dip up to 400 K (Figure  10d ). In general, the stability of the device is dependent on the nature of the material used in the fabrication of the device. Therefore, it is crucial to use thermally stable materials for the realization of stable solar cells with high performance. 
 THE INFLUENCE OF BACK CONTACTS ON THE MODEL CELL PERFORMANCE The performance of solar cells is significantly impacted by the existence of back contact. The nature of the backcontact in solar cell fabrication has attracted significant attention since they offer possible solutions to boost the PCE of solar cell devices.  [88] [89]  However, an inadequate understanding of their operation from a device physics perspective has prevented them from reaching their full potential. Moreover, the work function of the metal back contact, as well as temperature, have a profound impact on the efficiency of solar devices.  [90]  In this work, many types of metal back contacts, including silver (Ag), gold (Au), and platinum (Pt), with various work functions, have been explored. The explored working temperature was between 260 and 400 K. The PCE of solar cells has been found to be strongly influenced by temperature, the type of back contact, and metal work function.  [91]  In this study, simulation results indicated that the best working temperature is 300 K, where Ni exhibited a PCE of 37.17%; Au gave 37.17% PCE, whereas Fe with a work function of 4.50 eV gave a PCE of 20.56% (cf. Table  2 ). Ni was selected as the back contact of choice because of its affordability and abundance. Other back contact metals such as Pd and Pt posted robust PCE of 37.17% and decent FF of 77.99%. Metal back contacts that posted low PCE and low FF values were molybdenum and copper, as can be noted in Table  2 . The functionality of solar energy systems can be examined using a variety of back contacts in which it is noted that the PV cell efficiency has an important relationship with the metal work function of the back contact.  [92]  Summarily according to Table  2 , the highest PCE of 37.17% was attained by Ni, Pt, Au, Pd, and Co when used as back contacts. Because of possible band bending at the metal-semiconductor interface at high metal work functions, the majority carrier barrier height is reduced, which causes the contact to become more ohmic.  [71, 93]  Despite the high efficiency of the metals explored, Ni was generally selected as the best back contact because it is naturally abundant, affordable, and heat-stable.  [94]  Its work function facilitates the effective extraction and transportation of electrons, thereby enhancing the overall performance of the cell. Nickel's strong electrical conductivity facilitates the smooth movement of electrons in solar cells, cutting down on resistive losses and improving their overall effectiveness.  [95]  It also tends to stick well to different materials used in fabricating solar cells, adding to their durability and ability to endure environmental pressures, and thus bolstering their mechanical strength. The metals with work function less than 5.0 eV gave lower PCE values than the metals whose work function was greater than 5.0 eV. Nickel, despite having a slightly lower work function than the optimal value of 5.0 eV for back contact mate-rials in perovskite solar cells, presents several advantages over materials like palladium or other metals with higher work functions. Its unique blend of properties and cost efficiency renders it a feasible option for this purpose. Nickel proves more economical than metals such as palladium due to its widespread availability and lower price, making it a favorable choice for mass-producing solar cells. Moreover, nickel demonstrates commendable stability across diverse operational conditions. Its ability to sustain structural integrity and electrical characteristics over time significantly contributes to the durability and dependability of solar cells with Ni back contact. Nickel and gold have high work functions and are more compatible with electron affinity; thus, they are used to generate the lowest Schottky barriers.  [96]  Nevertheless, gold is too expensive to be used for the commercial production of solar cells. Palladium and nickel are economically viable metals with high enough work functions to avoid extremely massive Schottky barriers.  [97]   
 PARASITIC RESISTANCES The series and shunt resistances significantly impact the device's performance. Efficiency was affected by the impact of changing series resistance. Because they regulate the slopes and shapes of the current-voltage characteristics, shunt and series resistances significantly impact device performance.  [98]  The parasitic resistances may be caused by flaws in the material itself, during manufacture, as well as through the metal back contact. In a typical model, the heterojunction solar cell's J-V characteristics are provided by Equation (9). 𝐽 = 𝐽 𝐿 -𝐽 𝑂 [ exp ( 𝑒 (𝑉 + 𝐽 × 𝑅 𝑆 ) 𝐴𝐾 𝐵 𝑇 ) -1 ] - 𝑉 + 𝐽 × 𝑅 𝑆 𝑅 SH (9) Here, J is the produced current by SC, V is the output voltage, J L is the electric current induced by light, A is the ideality factor, J 0 is the reverse saturation current, K B is the Boltzmann constant, e is the electronic charge, T is temperature, R s is the series resistance, while R sh is the shunt resistance. 
 Effect of varying series resistance The reduction of the FF, an important parameter that describes cell quality, is affected by series resistances (R s ), but exceptionally high values can also diminish the reduction of the J sc .  [99]  Series resistance, typically associated with the resistance in the electrical connections and the intrinsic resistance of materials within the cell, can lead to voltage losses and reduced power output.  [100]  When the series resistance increases, it tends to reduce the FF and the overall PCE of the perovskite solar cell.  [101]  This is because an elevated series resistance results in higher voltage drops across the internal resistance components, leading to a decrease in the maximum power point and overall electrical output. Conversely, decreasing series resistance can have positive effects on the performance of the perovskite solar cell.  [102]  Lower series resistance contributes to improved FF, enhanced voltage, and ultimately higher PCE.  [103]  In summary, the variation of series resistance in a perovskite solar cell can influence its electrical characteristics, thus impacting parameters such as FF, voltage, and PCE.  [104]  Researchers and engineers often seek to optimize series resistance to enhance the performance of perovskite solar cells in practical applications. Due to the fact that the solar cell's complete current passes through it and, as a result, the series resistance is zero, the V oc is essentially not affected by the R s .  [105]  The R s value was modified in SCAPS-1D for each type under study from 0 to 8 Ωcm -2 in order to better understand the effect of series resistances on optimal device attributes. By adjusting R s from 0 to 8 Ωcm -2 , the series resistance performance is examined while keeping R sh at 10 3 Ωcm -2 . The efficiency of the cell architecture decreased as series resistance increased (Figure  11a ). The initial PCE was 36.63%, while the final was 19.20% at 8 Ωcm -2 . Although, in theory, the series and shunt resistances should be 0 at infinity, this is not how things actually work in solar systems.  [106]  Under conditions of high temperature and fluctuating voltage, R s can increase in value. In the lower temperature range, the shunt resistance value is high in contrast to series resistance. The V oc of the cell device remained constant, whereas the J sc decreased linearly with an increase in the series resistance, as shown in Figure  11b . Figure  11b  shows that the V oc remained constant largely due to various inherent characteristics of both the material and the cell's design architecture. Initially, FeSi 2 possesses a narrow band-gap, typically measuring around 0.85 eV, enabling effective absorption of photons across a broad range of sunlight wavelengths, including infrared and visible light.  [107]  This quality ensures consistent generation of electron-hole pairs within the material, consequently leading to a steady V oc .  [108, 109]  Additionally, FeSi 2 demonstrates a high optical absorption coefficient, allowing it to capture a significant portion of incident light even in thin layers, thereby contributing to V oc remaining constant. Furthermore, the electronic configuration of FeSi 2 plays a role in stabilizing its V oc . The materials band alignment facilitates efficient separation and movement of charge carriers within the solar cell structure. By carefully engineering interfaces and contacts, solar cells based on FeSi 2 can minimize losses due to recombination, thus preserving a high V oc . Moreover, FeSi 2 inorganic nature ensures excellent material durability and resilience against degradation over time, which is crucial for maintaining consistent device performance.  [110]  Taken together, the favorable optoelectronic properties, efficient charge transport, and material stability of FeSi 2 makes it a promising candidate for long-lasting and reliable solar energy conversion applications. 
 Effect of varying shunt resistance Low R sh results in power losses in solar cells because it offers an alternative channel for the generated current. This is achieved by absorbing light, which lowers the voltage generated by the solar cell by reducing the current flowing through the junction of the solar cell.  [111]  At low light levels, the effect of the shunt resistances is more severe since there is less light-induced current.  [105]  Shunt resistance was varied in the device between 10 and 10 10 Ω cm -2 in order to better understand its influence on the proposed cell configuration. It is observed from Figure  12a  PCE and FF increases when R sh increases from 10 to 10 6 Ω cm -2 after which the values of FF and PCE remained constant throughout the entire R sh range explored. The PCE increases sharply from 0% to 6% and then steadily increases to 33% with an increase in shunt resistance. From 33% to 37%, he PCE gradually increases before remaining constant as the shunt resistance increases. On the other hand, Figure  12b  Shows the that FF increased with increase in shunt resistance from 20% to 22.5%, after which it remains constant between 10 0 to 10 1 ohm cm 2 and then rises steadily from 20.5% up to 67.5%, and then rises gradually until a value of 77.5% is attained before remaining constant as the shunt resistance increases. The value of J sc , according to Figure  12a , remains constant at 51.43 mAcm -2 with increase in shunt resistance from 10 0 to 10 10 ohms cm 2 . However, the V oc rises steadily from 0 to 0.93 V when the shunt resistance is changed from 10 0 to 10 2 ohm cm 2 after which it gradually rises before remaining constant with an increase in the shunt resistance. As can be noted from the results of this study, the shunt resistance significantly impacts the device's FF and V oc in low light. This is due to the fact that the photovoltage depends on the amount of light and photogenerated current, and in the worst case under open circuit conditions,  [112]  the difference in potential among the two terminals cannot be maintained if a shunt current shorts the device.  [113]  There is still enough photo-generated current at high light intensities to maintain the device's photovoltage. The shunt loss rate is expressed as J sh /J ph , and it is particularly noticeable under low-light conditions. High R sh is, therefore, required for solar cells to work under low-light conditions.  [114]  The relatively constant value J sc with shunt resistance (R sh ) can be ascribed to the inherent characteristics of the material and its behavior within the device configuration. FeSi 2 , functioning as a semiconductor, displays traits gov-erning its performance in photovoltaic devices. A crucial factor is its band-gap, dictating the energy required for electron excitation.  [115]  Within FeSi 2 , this bandgap falls within an optimal range for solar absorption, facilitating efficient photon-electron conversion.  [116]  Consequently, J sc remains relatively stable as R sh fluctuates because current generation primarily hinges on absorbed photon flux regulated by material properties rather than external factors like shunt resistance.  [117]  Moreover, the nearly constant correlation between J sc and R sh indicates that FeSi 2 solar cells uphold consistent performance irrespective of R sh variations. This consistency stems from the intrinsic design of the device and the electronic properties of the material. FeSi 2 -based solar cells likely incorporate optimized structures and interfaces that mitigate shunting effects, ensuring minimal impact on generated current from R sh changes.  [118]  Furthermore, the materials electronic properties, including carrier mobility and recombination rates, contribute to sustaining a stable J sc despite R sh variations. In essence, the almost constant relationship between J sc and R sh underscores the resilience and dependability of FeSi 2 as a semiconductor material for photovoltaic applications. 
 The impact of defect density on cell performance The defect density of the absorber layer is essential when evaluating the efficiency and the performance of solar cell architecture. The existence of defects may cause bulk recombination of photogenerated charges, with the absorber material because the presence of the bulk defects acts as recombination centers, which can entice the charges hence recombine. Figure  13  shows the variation of photovoltaic parameters as a function of changing density of defects of the absorber. From Figure  13a  it can be observed that the value of FF increases from 78% to 84% with an increase in defect density, after which it remains constant between 2.2 × 1011 cm -3 to 3.8 × 1011 cm -3 defect density before it steadily increases from 84% to approximately 85% and remains constant at 85% as the defect density increases. On the other hand, the PCE decreases steadily from 37.17% to about 34% with an increase in defect density. This is attributed to increase in the recombination of the photogenerated charges due to increase in trap states. From Figure  13b , the value of J sc decreases from 54.41 to 51.12 mAcm -2 with an increase in defect density from 1.0 × 10 11 to 6.0 × 10 11 cm -3 , and can be ascribed to increased recombination of photogenerated charges. Besides, the value of V oc decreases sharply from 0.92 to 0.83 V with an increase in defect density before gradually decreasing from 0.83 to 0.79 V. The optimum defect density of the absorber was 1.0 × 10 11 cm -3 . It is worth noting that the process of tuning the intrinsic density of defects of material is quite expensive and this engineering strategy may impede the commercialization of solar cell devices in practice. 
 Effect of varying the density of p-type doping on performance of the device Doping significantly changes the optoelectronic properties of a material. By introducing dopants to the HTL, ETL and absorber components of the solar cell device have been carried out to improve the overall performance. Figure  14  show the effect of changing the density of the p-type doping (N A ) of the CuSCN, HTL material on the photovoltaic parameters of the device. The p-type doping level was investigated from 1.0 × 10 19 to 5.0 × 10 19 cm -3 . Generally, the PCE of the device increases as the density of the p-type doping increases while the FF decreased steadily (Figure  14a ). This observation may be attributed to the increase in hole mobilities thus resulting in high charge conductivity. Meanwhile, the V oc increased as the density of p-type doping increased, but the J sc decreased sharply (Figure  14b ). Nonetheless, the optimum acceptor density was found to be 5.0 × 10 19 cm -3 since it gave a modest efficiency of 39.21%, which is remarkable for the proposed cell structure. However, in practical sense, high doping levels may lead to deterioration of the cell thus, low performance and compromised longevity. performance of the device. In order to investigate the effect of the n-type doping (N D ) of the ETL material on the performance of the tested device, the density of n-type doping was varied from 2.0 × 10 17 cm -3 to 6.0 × 10 17 cm -3 . Figure  15  demonstrates that the device's PCE decreases slightly from 37.14% to 37.09% with an increase in donor doping density while the FF increases (Figure  15a ). On the other hand, the V oc decreases in the same fashion as the PCE whereas the J sc increases with increase in doping levels. The decrease in performance may be credited to the buildup of excess electrons concentration leading to slow conductivity which impacts on the cell performance. Excess concentration may lead to deterioration of the cell and the structure may collapse. In this case the optimum doping density of the n-type materials was founds at 2.0 × 10 17 cm -3 . 
 Effect of varying the density of n-type doping on performance of the device 
 Generation and recombination Recombination helps a solar cell's light-generated electron-hole pair (EHP) population to return to thermal equilibrium when it is not in equilibrium.  [119]  In a bulk semiconductor, recombination can have three different forms: auger, non-radiative, and radiative.  [120]  Lowering surface recombination in high-performance perovskite solar cells has been achieved by introducing an ultrathin low-conductivity interlayer that links the absorber and transport layer.  [121]  When an electron is excited from the valence band to the conduction band, the process is referred to as carrier generation. Conversely, recombination refers to the process of a conduction band electron losing energy and reoccupying the energy state of an electron hole in the valence band. The net generation-recombination rates for electron and hole carriers are approximately the same as seen in Figure  16 . Net generation refers to the production of free carriers (electrons and holes) through generation events, while net recombination refers to the loss of free carriers through recombination events. The net generation rate is essentially the disparity between the generation rate and the recombination rate. Throughout the depicted range, the net generation rate (net-Gn) is positive whereas the net recombination rate (net-GP) is negative. This indicates that generation events are likely predominant over recombination events across this length of the device structure. Notably, the net generation rate peaks around a distance of approximately 5 µm, then gradually diminishes in both directions. This pattern could suggest the presence of a generation source located approximately 5 µm from the left side of the Figure  16 . 
 Interface behavior of the proposed solar cell The characteristics of the perovskite layer are determined by the selected contacts and their interfaces, which also regulate the perovskite solar cell's hysteresis, open circuit voltage, the origin of PV action, performance, and device stability.  [122]  In conducting substrates, high-performance PSCs usually use a thin, compact hole-blocking layer (200-300 nm) beneath the mesoporous scaffold to prevent direct contact between the hybrid solar cell (HSC) as well as transparent conductive oxide, which could otherwise cause a short circuit in the device and eventually result in a low FF.  [123]  As the perovskite layer functions as a hole transporter and a physical barrier between ITO and FeSi 2 is crucial, the interfacial charge recombination may intensify significantly. Figure  17a  shows how interfacial layers are introduced in the model cell architecture while Figure  17b  gives the corresponding J-V curve for the model cell with-TA B L E 3 Optical electric characteristics for the solar cell architecture with and without interfaces. 
 Parameters Without interface 
 With interface J sc (mAcm -2 ) 5 1 . 4  out interfaces and the model cell with interface modifiers. Clearly, the cell architecture with interfacial modifiers has better efficiency compared with that without interfacial layers. This can be ascribed to the fact that interfacial modifiers have better exciton extraction efficiency and better charge separation, in addition to minimizing charge loss and recombination. In terms of the two requirements for a high-performing photovoltaic device, namely light absorption and full charge collection, FeSi 2 provides a high absorption coefficient in the visible spectrum, leading to a high carrier density. Nonetheless, even in films with a thickness of about 300 nm, charge extraction is remarkably difficult.  [124]  This is because the perovskite layer undergoes various recombination events, particularly at the interfaces between devices. Ti-based carbide (Ti 3 C 2 (OH) 2 ) and polyethylene terephthalate polymer were employed as interface materials in this work (Figure  17a ). At the bulk perovskite/HTL and perovskite/ETL interface, interfaces are known to provide spatial separation that helps to limit interfacial recombination losses, resulting in a low V oc deficit and high FF and J sc . According to Table  3 , once the interface materials were included in the design of the solar cell, the PCE rose from 37.17% to 41.84%, and the J sc increased from 51.41 to 51.86 mA cm -2 , respectively. 
 Comparison with other all-inorganic perovskite solar cells The performance of the modeled device compared with other similar reported devices can be shown in Table  4 . The relatively excellent performance of our device can be ascribed to better band alignment between the absorber, ETL and HTL materials, thus, reducing the recombination of photogenerated charges especially at the interfaces. The CuSCN as HTL has a relatively higher hole mobility of 2.5 × 10 1 cm -2 V -1 s -1 (cf. Table  1 ) which facilitates effective hole extraction and blocking of electrons, thus, better performance. The design and simulated configuration of the  device is cost effective, ecofriendly, and chemically stable and can be commercialized in the near future. 
 CONCLUSIONS This study has found that the model cell based on iron di-silicide (FeSi 2 ) photoactive layer exhibits remarkable performance with an optimal thickness of 1000 nm. Nickel is suggested as a superior rear contact for the model cell due to its alignment with semiconductor work functions, enhancing electron flow and maximizing solar cell performance. Additionally, the optimum acceptor density was found to be 5.0 × 10 19 cm -3 which gave a remarkable efficiency of 39.21%. On the other hand, the optimum density of the n-type doping was found at 2.0 × 10 17 cm -3 whereas the defect density of the absorber was 1.0 × 10 11 cm -3 . The CBO at the absorber/CuSCN was determined to be +2.63 eV and was high enough to block the flow of photogenerated electrons, thus impeding recombination whereas the VBO was approximately -2.06 eV, and was sufficient to block holes, therefore, TiO 2 as ETL is an effective HBL, hence reducing recombination of photogen-erated holes with electrons at absorber/ETL interface. The importance of improving crystal quality, stoichiometry, conductivity, and doping concentrations in FeSi 2 photoactive layer to enhance efficiency has been emphasized in this work. Interfacial polymers are highlighted as a means to control perovskite film crystallization, promote nucleation, and improve device stability. Despite challenges in designing high hole mobility polymer materials, they are recognized for their potential in enhancing exciton separation and device performance. The optimized solar cell architecture with interfacial engineering achieved a power conversion efficiency of 41.84%. The proposed cell configuration is considered environmentally friendly, costeffective, and promising for perovskite solar cells. The novelty of this work lies in exploring the potential of FeSi 2 as a light-absorbing layer (absorber) in perovskite solar cells using SCAPS-1D. The study examines how various factors like temperature and layer thickness affect the cell's efficiency and proposes an optimal cell design with an ultrathin interfacial layer that achieves improved performance compared to a standard design. This research introduces FeSi 2 as a promising new material for solar cell fabrication and validates its effectiveness through simulation. F I G U R E 1 1 The proposed solar photovoltaic architecture (a) and (b) the corresponding band alignment diagram. 
 2 2 Photon Energy (eV) 
 U R E 3 J-V characteristics simulated at various wavelengths and quantum efficiencies. 
 U R E 4 J-V characteristics simulated at various thicknesses of the absorber (a) and (b) quantum efficiencies simulated at different absorber thicknesses. 
 5 5 Current-voltage characteristics simulated at selected thicknesses of TiO 2 (a) and (b) CuSCN. 
 F I G U R E 6 6 Simulated band alignment diagram. 
 7 7 Shows an illustration of Mott-Schottky characteristics. 
 8 8 Conductance and capacitance characteristics. 
 F I G U R E 9 9 Nyquist plot of the proposed solar cell. 
 1 0 1 Electrical output parameters as function of temperature (a) V oc , (b) J sc , (c) power conversion efficiency (PCE), and (d) fill factor (FF). 
 1 2 12 The influence of series resistance on different electrical characteristics (a) fill factor (FF) and power conversion efficiency (PCE) (b) J sc and V oc . The effect of shunt resistance on electrical properties (a) J sc and V oc and (b) fill factor (FF) and power conversion efficiency (PCE). 
 3 3 The effect of defect density on (a) power conversion efficiency (PCE) and fill factor (FF), and (b) J sc and V oc . 
 4 5 45 Effect of density of p-type doping on the (a) fill factor (FF) and power conversion efficiency (PCE) and (b) J sc and V oc of the modeled device. Effect of density of n-type doping on the (a) fill factor (FF) and power conversion efficiency (PCE) (b) J sc and V oc of the modeled device. 
 6 6 Traits of generation-recombination. 
 F I G U R E 1 7 1 The model solar cell architecture with interfaces (a) and (b) J-V characteristics of the proposed solar cell with and without interface.TA B L E 4Performance evaluation of the device investigated in this study with reference to other related devices. 
 Variation of electrical parameters of the solar cell architecture with metal back contacts. Metal Work function (eV) V oc (V) J sc (mAcm -2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Ni 5.15 0.9270 51.4082 77.99 37.17 Au 5.10 0.9270 51.4082 77.99 37.17 Pd 5.12 0.9270 51.4082 77.99 37.17 Pt 5.65 0.9270 51.4082 77.99 37.17 Mo 4.60 0.6694 51.3985 73.84 25.46 Cu 4.65 0.7193 51.4009 75.32 27.85 Co 5.00 0.9270 51.4082 77.99 37.17 Fe 4.50 0.5694 51.3927 70.28 20.56 Abbreviations: FF, fill factor; PCE, power conversion efficiency. TA B L E 2 
 Device architecture Method V oc (V) J sc Simulation 0.938 51.58 81.48 39.44 [125] ITO-CdS-FeSi 2 Simulation 0.755 51.82 85.46 33.59 [125] p-FeSi 2 (Al)/n-Si Experimental 0.45 4.2 44 0.82 [126] n-FeSi 2 /p-Si Experimental 0.45 14.84 55 3.7 [38] ITO/TiO 2 /FeSi 2 /CuSCN/Ni Simulation 0.97 51.86 77.99 37.17 This work (mA cm -2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Ref Glass/ITO/CdS/FeSi 2 /PEDOT:PSS/Au Abbreviations: FF, fill factor; PCE, power conversion efficiency. 
			 26884011, 2024, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/nano.202400020 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
