Paper #: 3354_1
Title: Efficient and stable perovskite solar cells via surface defect passivation using 4-fluorobenzamine trifluoroacetate †
Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have achieved high power conversion efficiencies (PCEs). However, surface defects present a major challenge to further improving their performance. Fluorine-substituted materials have been widely utilized to passivate surface defects and improve the photovoltaic performance and stability of PSCs. In this study, post-treatment of the methylamine-lead iodide (MAPbI 3 ) perovskite surface was performed using 4-fluoroaniline trifluoroacetate (P-F-PMATFA), and the surface defects of the perovskite were passivated via an F atom, which reduced the energy barrier between the perovskite film (PVK) and hole transport layer (HTL). Consequently, the PCE of P-F-PMATFA treated solar cells based on the MAPbI 3 perovskite increased from 19.19 to 21.01% with low open-circuit voltage (V OC ) loss (0.44 V). Further, P-F-PMATFA treated perovskite devices exhibited long-term stability, owing to the higher hydrophobicity of fluorinated materials. The post-treatment strategy demonstrated in this study shows wide application potential in the field of photovoltaic devices owing to its ability to passivate surface defects and improve material stability.
Introduction Fossil fuels are rapidly depleting, and fossil fuel energy is at an imminent risk of exhaustion; therefore, the investigation and development of new energy sources is urgently required to replace fossil fuels.  1  Perovskite solar cells (PSCs) are green and efficient photoelectric devices with the potential to address the energy crisis and environmental pollution problems.  2, 3  A certi-ed power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 26.14% has been achieved for a photovoltaic device, and it is expected to become a candidate material for the next generation of solar cells.  4  However, the large number of defects in polycrystalline perovskite lms leads to adverse effects on carrier recombination and migration in the devices. Non-radiative recombination is the primary cause of charge loss, which determines the performance of PSCs.  5, 6  To promote the development of PSCs and improve their performance, various approaches have been utilized such as optimization of the band gap, perovskite crystallization, and defect passivation.  [7] [8] [9] [10] [11]  Perovskite lms include two-and three-dimensional defects that exist in a trapped state inside the crystal, on the surface, and at the grain boundaries, affecting the performance of the device.  [12] [13] [14] [15]  For instance, uncoordinated X -ions tend to form non-radiative recombination centers, increasing the loss of carriers, thereby affecting the extraction and transport of holes, and thus reducing the V OC and short-circuit current density (J SC ).  16, 17  Additionally, the carrier separation efficiency at the perovskite lm (PVK) and hole transport layer (HTL) interface (PVK/HTL) is extremely low because the electrons and holes gather a few nanometers below the perovskite surface. Moreover, the presence of defects increases the possibility of non-radiative recombination.  18, 19  Therefore, optimization of the perovskite adsorption layer and HTL to effectively improve the charge separation rate has become one of the research hotspots.  [20] [21] [22]  Utilizing uorinated materials for PSCs is a feasible approach to enhance the device performance and long-term stability.  23  Yuan et al. used NbF 5 as an additive to stabilize the a-phase of a formamidine(FA)-based PVK,  24  conrming that it remarkably enhanced the crystallinity, surface morphology, and phase stability of FA-based perovskite materials. Bi et al. utilized 1,1-triuoro-ethyl ammonium iodide (FEAI) as an additive for the perovskite to enhance the surface morphology and device stability owing to the hydrophobic -CF 3 terminal group present in the FEAI.  25  The inclusion of halogen ions contributes to the passivation of the Pb gap and halide vacancy; therefore, excessive halide ions were doped in the negative solution of perovskite precursors to achieve ion passivation.  [26] [27] [28]  Particularly, doping with uoride ions is an effective strategy to reduce the defect density owing to its ultra-strong electronegativity, which enables strong interactions between uoride and lead, and forms hydrogen bonds with MA + and FA + cations.  29  Dong et al. designed a double-surface defect passivation agent, namely, 4amino-2,3,5,6-tetrauorobenzoate cesium (ATFC), which copassivated with C]O groups and F atoms by passivating undercoordinated Pb 2+ defects and improved the efficiency of high-quality perovskite lms.  30  In this study, the passivation strategy of the F atom was demonstrated using P-F-PMATFA (C 9 H 9 F 4 NO 2 ) as a surface modier, achieving a champion efficiency of 21.01% with high V OC (1.13 V), which is attributed to the following: (1) P-F-PMATFA successfully modulates the interfacial electronic properties of the perovskite, leading to a better-matched interfacial energy-level alignment between the PVK and HTL; (2) P-F-PMATFA has a strong passivation effect on the surface defects of the perovskite owing to the interactions between Pb 2+ and F. Furthermore, the unencapsulated device maintained an initial efficiency of 80.5% aer storage for 500 h at a relative humidity (RH) of approximately 45% owing to the higher hydrophobicity of uorinated materials. 
 Experimental section 
 Materials Tin dioxide aqueous solution (SnO 2 , 15%) was obtained from Alfa Aesar. Methylammonium iodide (MAI) was purchased from Greatcell Solar Company. Lead iodide (PbI 2 ) was obtained from TCI. Spiro-OMeTAD, bistriuoromethanesulfonimide lithium salt (LiTFSI), 4-tert-butylpyridine (TBP) and P-F-PMATFA were purchased from Xi'an Polymer Light Technology Corp. Anhydrous solvents including N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), chlorobenzene (CB), acetonitrile (ACN) and isopropanol (IPA) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. All materials were used as received without further purication. 
 Preparation of precursor solutions The electron transport layer (ETL) precursor solution was prepared by diluting SnO 2 solution from 15% to 2.67%. The perovskite precursor solution was prepared by dissolving 606.3 mg PbI 2 and 199.2 mg MAI in a mixed solvent with 750 mL DMF and 85 mL DMSO. P-F-PMATFA powder was dissolved in IPA with concentrations of 0.5, 1, 5, and 10 mM to prepare the P-F-PMATFA precursor solution. The hole transport layer (HTL) precursor solution was prepared by dissolving in 1 mL CB 72.3 mg Spiro-OMeTAD, 28.8 mL TBP, and 17.8 mL LiTFSI in ACN (520 mg mL -1 ). Except for the ETL precursor solution, all precursor solutions were prepared and stored in a glovebox with a nitrogen atmosphere. 
 Device fabrication and characterization The patterned ITO substrates (NSG 10, Nippon sheet glass) were cleaned by sequential sonication with detergent, DI water (twice), acetone, ethanol and IPA for 20 min each respectively, and then dried in an oven at 80 °C. The cleaned ITO substrates were treated with UV-ozone irradiation for 20 min before spin coating. The SnO 2 precursor solution was spin coated on the ITO at 4000 rpm for 30 s, followed by annealing at 150 °C for 30 min. Aer cooling to room temperature, the lms were treated with UV-ozone irradiation again and transferred into a glovebox with a nitrogen atmosphere. The perovskite precursor solution was spin coated on the SnO 2 layer at 4000 rpm for 30 s and 150 mL CB was dropped on the center of the lm aer 8 s processing, followed by annealing at 100 °C for 10 min. For the post treatment process, the P-F-PMATFA solutions with different concentrations (0.5, 1, 5, and 10 mM) were dynamically spin coated on the perovskite surface at 4000 rpm for 30 s. The Spiro-OMeTAD precursor solution was spin coated on control perovskite lms and P-F-PMATFA treated perovskite lms at 4000 rpm for 30 s. All spin coating processes reached the maximum rotation speed in one second. Aer spin coating, all lms were taken out and oxidized overnight in the drying cabinet. Finally, 5 nm MoO 3 and 100 nm Ag electrode were thermally evaporated in a vacuum chamber at the pressure of 5 × 10 -4 Pa with a shadow mask, and the aperture area is 0.05 cm 2 . All photovoltaic devices were directly tested without packaging. The density-voltage (J-V) curves of the PSCs were collected with a digital source meter (Keithley 2400) using an Enlitech Solar Simulator (AM 1.5 G, 100 mW cm -2 ) that was calibrated with a standard silicon solar cell from NREL. The scanning rate of J-V curves was 100 mV s -1 and the scanning step was 0.02 V with a xed delay of 10 ms. The capacitancevoltage (C-V) curves of the PSCs were collected at a xed frequency of 1 kHz using an electrochemical workstation (CHI 760 e), and the Mott-Schottky curves were converted from the C-V curves. The external quantum efficiency (EQE) spectrum was characterized using the A-C mode of an Enlitech QE-R system (the scanning range was 300-850 nm). The electronic impedance spectroscopy (EIS) plots were collected using an electrochemical workstation (PGSTAT302N, Autolab). Based on the space charge limited current (SCLC) measurement method, the electron-only devices were fabricated with a structure of ITO/SnO 2 /perovskite/PCBM/BCP/Ag. The J-V curves of the electron-only devices were obtained under dark conditions. 
 Film characterization The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the perovskite lms were recorded using a Holland Panalytical PRO PW3040/60. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were recorded using a Hitachi S-4800 eld emission scanning electron microscope. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) images were obtained from a Shimadzu SPM 9700. UV-vis absorption spectra were measured from a Shimadzu UV-2700 (the scanning range was 300-900 nm). The steady-state photoluminescence (PL) spectra were measured using a uorescence spectrometer (Agilent ICP-OES720, Agilent, America; the excitation wavelength is 470 nm). Time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) analysis was performed using a Lifetime Spectrouorometer (FLS-1000, the excitation wavelength is 470 nm). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra were obtained using a Thermo Scientic K-Alpha. Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) spectra were measured with a Thermo ESCALAB 250XI.  207  Pb static nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments were performed with a Bruker 300 MHz NMR spectrometer operating at 62.73 MHz for 207 Pb.  19  F magic angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectra were recorded using a Bruker 600 MHz NMR spectrometer at 25 °C and 8 kHz. Pure NaF (-224 ppm) was used as a reference for  19  F chemical shis. The powders were scraped from glass substrates and packed in a MAS rotor in an N 2 -lled glovebox before being transferred into the NMR probe. 
 Results and discussion The workow diagram depicting the modication process of the perovskite is given in Scheme 1. In this study, a one-step method was used to prepare perovskite n-i-p(normal) structures, which are widely accepted owing to their low-temperature manufacturing and commercialization.  31, 32  By comparing the Xray diffraction (XRD) data of the lms before and aer treatment, it was observed that the diffraction peaks (2q) slightly shied to lower angles, indicating lattice expansion, as shown in Fig.  1(a) . Aer P-F treatment, the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the (110) peak decreased from 0.120°to 0.116°, indicating sharper diffraction peaks and suggesting an increase in crystallite size. Both pure MAPbI 3 and P-F-PMATFA treated MAPbI 3 lms exhibited a weak PbI 2 characteristic peak at 2q = 12.8°. To understand the impact of surface post-treatment on morphological engineering, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) images of untreated and P-F-treated MAPbI 3 lms were collected. The lms and devices based on pure MAPbI 3 are denoted as "control," whereas the lms treated with 1 mM P-F-PMATFA are labeled "P-F treated," and any other post-treated specimens are identied accordingly. Fig.  1(b ) and (c) show the SEM images of the perovskite lm before and aer P-F treatment. The image shows several pinholes on the surface of the lm before treatment, which short-circuit the device and provide channels for water and oxygen penetration, which is extremely unfavorable to the long-term stability of the device.  33  Aer treatment, recrystallization caused by the sequential deposition process led to an increase in crystallite size, a reduction in internal stress and defects, and an improvement in crystal quality. Consequently, the number of pinholes was signicantly reduced. Fig.  1(d)  and (e)  show the AFM images of the sample before and aer the P-F treatment and provide the corresponding root-mean-square (RMS) roughness values. The RMS of the perovskite lm of P-F treated reduces, which is conducive to the interface contact between the absorption layer and the HTL. Additionally, the AFM images reveal that the surface holes improve remarkably aer the processing. Fig.  1 (f) shows the EDS mapping image of the element F on the surface of the lm aer P-F treatment, exhibiting its uniform distribution, thus indicating that the additive is effectively introduced. Steady-state and time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra were recorded for untreated and P-F treated lms to explore the charge recombination of perovskite lms, as shown in Fig.  2(a ). The PL intensity aer P-F treatment is approximately six times that before treatment, indicating that P-F-PMATFA effectively reduces non-radiative recombination by passivating surface defects. Non-radiative recombination results in a loss of V OC in the PSCs;  34  therefore, it could be inferred that the assembled device produces higher V OC aer P-F-PMATFA reprocessing. Fig.  2 (b) shows the TRPL spectrum and its corresponding tting curve. The blue curve represents the nonlinear tting of the double exponential function as given in eqn (1) (ref. 35) I ¼ A 1 exp À t s 1 þ A 2 exp À t s 2 (1) where s 1 is related to the quenching of the photoexcited carrier and s 2 is related to the well-assisted recombination. The corresponding tting parameters are listed in Table  1 . The s 1 and s 2 values of the P-F treated perovskite lm are determined to be 19.96 and 106.99 ns, which are considerably higher than those of the control lm, i.e., 15.49 and 70.31 ns, respectively. Therefore, the extended carrier lifetime corroborates that the recombination of photogenerated carriers is effectively inhibited in the treated lms.  36  Fig.  S1  (ESI) † shows the optical properties of perovskite lms based on the absorption and the corresponding Tauc spectrum. The band gap (E g ) of the perovskite lms before and aer the P-F treatment is the same, i.e., 1.57 eV. The surface electronic structures of treated and untreated MAPbI 3 lms were examined using ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS). In the UPS spectra, the secondary electron cutoff region determines the work function (WF). Aer post-treatment of the P-F-PMATFA, the WF of the perovskite lm reduces from 4.35 to 4.02 eV (Fig.  2(c )), which further improves the efficiency of hole extraction between the perovskite and the top HTL.  37  The decrease in the WF could result in electron transfer from the perovskite layer to the additive, resulting in a decrease in electron cloud density. Additionally, the position of the Fermi level (EF) relative to the valence band maximum shis from 1.13 to 1.31 eV. Fig.  2(d ) shows the energy level diagram corresponding to this process, wherein band bending is distinctly observed. The HOMO level of Spiro-OMeTAD is derived from a previous study,  30  whereas the band gap aer P-F-PMATFA addition is derived from the Tauc spectrum (Fig.  S1  (ESI) †). The introduction of additives effectively improves the alignment of interfacial bands, and the stepped energy level structure formed is conducive to the separation and extraction of charges. To further explore the interactions between the P-F-PMATFA additive and MAPbI 3 perovskite, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of perovskite lms was performed. The F 1s XPS spectrum of pure P-F-PMATFA shows a peak value at 688 eV (Fig.  2(e) ). Aer the P-F treatment of the perovskite lm, the peak value of the F 1s spectrum moves toward lower binding energy (BE) and appears at 686 eV. However, no peak value for F 1s is observed in the control group, implying that the P-F-PMATFA is effectively introduced. To verify the spatial distribution of additives in the lm following the P-F-PMATFA  treatment, deep XPS etching of MAPbI 3 lms on F 1s aer P-F treatment was performed, as shown in Fig.  S2  (ESI). † The signal of F 1s disappears entirely aer the surface etching of 3 nm, indicating that the additive is concentrated on the surface of the perovskite lm and cannot enter the bulk phase of the perovskite lm. The peaks of Pb 4f 7/2 and Pb 4f 5/2 shi from 137.31 and 142.17 eV in the control membrane to 137.51 and 142.39 eV in the P-F treatment membrane, respectively (Fig.  2(f) ). This movement of the characteristic peaks to higher BE is attributed to a decrease in electron cloud density, which is consistent with the observed peak shi in UPS. The displacement of F 1s and Pb 4f peaks indicates the interaction between P-F-PMATFA molecules and the perovskite lattice, indicating that the charged defects on the perovskite surface are effectively passivated via the interactions between F in P-F-PMATFA and Pb 2+ .  30  The carrier recombination attributed to the surface defects is the primary source of non-radiative recombination loss and leads to the degradation of hybrid perovskite materials.  34  Therefore, P-F-PMATFA could substantially improve the photovoltaic performance and long-term stability of devices. The Solid  19  F NMR spectra of MAPbI 3 and pure P-F-PMATFA powders treated with different concentrations of P-F-PMATFA were evaluated using the MAS technique. As shown in Fig.  3 (a), the uorine spectrum presents two narrow peaks at -76.24 and -90.75 ppm for pure additive and P-F treated powders, and the peaks at two different chemical positions represent the F element in two different chemical environments i.e., the anion and cation of the additive. As shown in Fig.  S3  (ESI), † the  19  F NMR spectrum of pure MAPbI 3 shows no peaks across the entire measurement range. Due to the short recycle delay used, the intensity of the signals at -76.24 and -90.75 ppm in the spectrum is not coordinated with its stoichiometric ratio. This can be attributed to the recycle delay used in the experiments which is not long enough to ensure the fully relaxation of the signals. Aer the P-F processing, a large wide peak centered at -135.1 ppm appears in the spectrum (Fig.  3 (a), down). The signal intensity of this peak contributes to approximately 94% of the total signal in the spectrum. According to the literature,  38, 39  this indicates that a large amount of additives has entered the surface defects, inducing a change in the distribution of F element chemical shis. Several small peaks were still present in the spectrum ranging from -75.0 ppm to -80.0 ppm. This can be attributed to the presence of trace residual additives. Moreover, as reected by the clear splitting of the peaks, the residual additives most likely have undergone a certain change to adopt the local environment. The effect of P-F-PMATFA post-treatment on the performances of the prepared PSCs was investigated using the ITO/ SnO 2 /MAPbI 3 /Spiro-OMeTAD/MoO 3 /Ag planar PSC structure (Fig.  4(a) ). All devices were evaluated directly without encapsulation. The J-V curves were measured at different concentrations (Fig.  4(b) ), and the corresponding detailed photovoltaic parameters are summarized in Table  2 . Overall, the PSC efficiency initially increases, followed by a subsequent decrease with the increase in P-F-PMATFA concentration from 0.5 to 10 mM. The optimal control device exhibits a PCE of 19.19%, a J SC of 23.9 mA cm -2 , a V OC of 1.09 V, and a ll factor (FF) of 0.74. In contrast, aer the optimal treatment using 1 mM additive concentration, the PCE of perovskite devices increases to 21.01%, J SC to 24.1 mA cm -2 , V OC to 1.13 V, and FF to 0.77.  The reduced PCE observed at a high post-treatment concentration of 10 mM indicates that careful tuning of the P-F-PMATFA concentration is necessary to achieve enhanced PCE. Further, J-V curves of control and P-F treated PSCs were collected in different scanning directions (Fig.  4(c )), and the detailed photovoltaic parameters calculated from these curves are listed in Table  3 . The control device exhibits a PCE of 19.19% in the reverse scan mode, and 18.54% in the forward scan mode, whereas the P-F treated device shows a PCE of 21.01% and 20.91% under the same conditions. Additionally, the hysteresis index (HI) decreases from 0.034 to 0.005 aer the introduction of P-F-PMATFA, where HI is obtained from eqn (2) as follows: 33 HI ¼ PCE RS À PCE FS PCE RS (2) The decrease in the hysteresis effect and the remarkable performance enhancement can be attributed to the passivation of surface defects and alignment of the interface energy band. Fig.  4(d)  shows the quantum efficiency (EQE) spectrum and integrated photocurrent density in the 300-850 nm test range, revealing similar absorption edges of the controlled and P-F treated devices, indicating nearly the same photovoltaic bandgap for both the devices. Moreover, P-F-treated devices exhibit higher PCE, which is consistent with the observed increase in J SC values in the J-V curve. The results reveal the integrated photocurrent density of the control and P-F treated devices to be 23.39 and 24.09 mA cm -2 , respectively, which is similar to the measured value of the J-V curve (error < 3%). Additionally, the P-F treated optimal device works continuously for 300 s at the maximum power point voltage of 0.90 V, producing a steady-state current density of 23.28 mA cm -2 and a stability efficiency of 20.48% (Fig.  4(e) ), whereas the steady-state current density of the control device at the maximum power point voltage of 0.85 V is lower at 21.64 mA cm -2 and the stabilization efficiency is 18.23% (Fig.  S4, ESI † ). The results corroborate that appropriate P-F-PMATFA posttreatment improves device performance. Additionally, statistical charts of PV parameters for 20 different batches were   Particularly, the T90 lifetime of the P-F treatment unit is estimated to be 80 h, whereas the corresponding value for the control unit is only 40 h. The optimized PSCs retain 80.5% of the initial PCE aer 500 h of aging, which is remarkably higher than the initial value of 48.0% of the control unit under similar conditions. In addition, we tested the PCE evolution of the unencapsulated devices under continuous 1-sun equivalent illumination in a nitrogen atmosphere. The PCE of the control device decreased to 33.4% aer 500 hours. On the other hand, the P-F treated devices showed signicantly improved illumination stability, maintaining 93.3% of their initial efficiency aer 500 hours (Fig.  S7 , ESI †). Previous studies reveal that the degradation of perovskites begins at highly active and diffuse defect sites, such as those found on lm surfaces and grain boundaries. Therefore, the enhanced long-term stability suggests that P-F-PMATFA passivates surface defects and delays the degradation of the perovskite.  40, 41  As shown in Fig.  S8  (ESI), † the water contact angle of the untreated and P-F treated perovskite lms was measured and, as expected, the post-treated perovskite lm exhibited a higher contact angle, thus improving the stability under wet conditions. This suggests that the presence of F can effectively protect PSCs from corrosion by water vapor. To evaluate the trap densities and charge mobilities of the prepared devices, the dark J-V curves were initially determined for the electron-only device using the space charge limited current (SCLC) method. The structure of this device was ITO/ SnO 2 /MAPbI 3 /PCBM/BCP/Ag (Fig.  5(a) ).  42  The rst inection point in the plot represents the limiting voltage, V TFL for charge trap lling. Therefore, using the formula in eqn (3) (ref. 43) where e is the charge of an electron, 3 is the relative permittivity  44  (3 = 30 for MAPbI 3 ), 3 0 is the vacuum permittivity (∼8.85 × 10 -14 F cm -1 ), and L is the thickness of the perovskite absorption layer (400 nm), the electronic defect density (N t ) of the devices was calculated. The N t of the control device is estimated to be approximately 9.956 × 10 15 cm -3 , which drops to approximately 4.356 × 10 15 cm -3 for the P-F treated devices, indicating that the charged defects on the lm surface are effectively neutralized in the P-F treated devices. To better understand the increase of V OC , the capacitance-voltage (C-V) relationship curve of the corresponding device was collected via experiments and presented in Fig.  S9  (ESI). † Further, the builtin potential difference V bi of the device is compared, and the V bi satises the Mott-Schottky equation (eqn (4)).  37  1 V TFL ¼ eN t L 2 233 0 (3) C 2 ¼ 2ðV bi À V Þ A 2 e3 0 3N A (4) where A represents the device area, N A is the carrier concentration, and extrapolating the linear part of the curve to obtain the intercept with the V axis yields the at-band potential, or the built-in potential difference V bi . Compared to that of devices based on pure MAPbI 3 , the V bi of devices treated with P-F-PMATFA increases from 0.79 to 0.98 V, which promotes the separation of photogenerated charge and contributes to the increase of device V OC . The increase of V bi is attributed to the decrease of perovskite WF and the effective passivation of surface defects. Fig.  5 (b) shows the Nyquist plots of the control and the P-F treated devices obtained at 1.0 V in the dark. The recombination resistance (R rec ) corresponding to the lowfrequency arc is higher than the charge transfer resistance (R ct ), corresponding to the high-frequency part of the impedance spectra. Therefore, the equivalent circuit is simplied to the circuit model as shown in the inset that comprises the R rec , the sheet resistance (R s ), and the recombination capacitance (C rec ). The tted parameters are listed in Table  S1  (ESI). † Aer post-treatment, the R rec value of the PSCs increases from 0.81 to 2.29 kU, indicating that carrier recombination is suppressed at the perovskite/HTL interface. To further verify the increase in R rec , the impedance spectra of the control and the P-F treated devices were collected at different applied bias voltages under dark conditions, and the values of R rec are summarized in Fig.  5(c ). Compared with the control devices, the P-F treated devices exhibit larger R rec at various applied bias voltages, indicating higher V OC owing to lower carrier recombination. The increased value of R rec is ascribed to the reduction in the surface defect density, which is in accordance with the results of the SCLC test (Fig.  5 (a)). To clarify the charge recombination dynamics changes in the device, a test was conducted to evaluate the dependence of V OC on light intensity, I. The V OC -I curve is shown in Fig.  5 (d), fullling eqn (5). 45 V OC ¼ nkT qlnI (5) when the horizontal and vertical coordinates are double log, lg V OC and lg I show a nearly linear correlation, and the slope of the line is used to evaluate the degree of trap-assisted recombination, where n is the ideality factor of the diode (its value is theoretically between 1 and 2), k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute temperature, and q is the elementary charge. The slope of the device based on pure MAPbI 3 is 1.468 kT/q, whereas for that treated with P-F-PMATFA it is 1.115 kT/q. A considerable reduction of n reveals that P-F-PMATFA post-processing effectively inhibits the Shockley-Read-Hall recombination of the device,  46, 47  which is consistent with the passivation owing to P-F-PMATFA post-processing. 
 Conclusions In this study, we successfully introduced P-F-PMATFA containing F into MA-based PSCs via a post-processing method. The interactions of F and Pb 2+ were used to passivate the surface defects of the perovskite and inhibit non-radiative recombination. The introduction of additives improves the energy band arrangement of the perovskite/HTL interface and promotes the separation and extraction of charges. Additionally, the uorine introduction enhanced the hydrophobicity of perovskite lms, and remarkably improved the long-term stability and humidity stability of perovskite lms. Consequently, all the photovoltaic parameters of the n-i-p structured PSCs were improved. The champion unit achieved a PCE of 21.01%, and the unpacking unit maintained an initial efficiency of 80.5% aer aging at 45% RH for 500 h. Therefore, this study demonstrates a promising approach to improve the device performance and stability of PSCs, which would be benecial to other optoelectronic device applications as well. Devices based on this structure show immense potential for the development of more advanced PSCs. 2018YFC1602800), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation Funded Project (Grant No. 2022M711159), the Xing-Fu-Zhi-Hua Foundation of ECNU, and the Microscale Magnetic Resonance Platform of ECNU. 
 Notes and references Scheme 1 1 Scheme 1 Schematic illustration of P-F-PMATFA modified MAPbI 3 film preparation. 
 Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 (a) XRD patterns of pure MAPbI 3 and MAPbI 3 perovskite films treated with P-F-PMATFA. (b and c) SEM images of MAPbI 3 films before and after P-F treatment. (d and e) AFM images of MAPbI 3 films before and after P-F processing. The scale and calculated root-mean-square (RMS) roughness are indicated. (f) EDS mapping image of surficial F element distribution after P-F processing. 
 Fig. 2 2 Fig. 2 (a) Steady-state PL spectra of the untreated and P-F treated MAPbI 3 films. (b) TRPL spectra of the untreated and P-F treated MAPbI 3 films. The blue curves represent the corresponding fitting curves. (c) UPS spectra of the untreated and P-F treated perovskite films. (d) Interface energy level alignment of the PVK/HTL species. (e) XPS spectra of F 1s in pure additive P-F-PMATFA, and untreated and P-F-treated perovskite films. (f) XPS spectra of the Pb 4f species in the untreated and P-F treated perovskite films. 
 Fig. 3 ( 3 b) shows the 207 Pb NMR spectra of the same samples. Comparison shows a clear shi in the peak position, indicating that the entry of additives into surface defects has resulted in deformation of the framework of Pb elements due to space constraints. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 (a) Solid 19 F NMR spectra of pure additive P-F-PMATFA and P-F treated MAPbI 3 powders. The illustration is a partially enlarged image. (The curve in the figure is 1/200x magnification of the P-F-PMATFA data). (b) 207 Pb NMR spectra of pure MAPbI 3 and P-F treated MAPbI 3 . 
 Fig. 4 4 Fig. 4 (a) Structure diagram of the perovskite. (b) J-V curves of PSCs prepared at different P-F-PMATFA concentrations (0, 0.5, 1, 5, and 10 mM) under standard 1 solar AM 1.5 G light. (c) The density-voltage curves of PSCs employing MAPbI 3 and P-F treated under forward scan (FS) and reverse scan (RS). (d) EQE spectra (dotted lines, left-hand axis) and integrated photocurrents (curves, right-hand axis) of the control and the P-F treated PSCs. (e) Steady-state photocurrent density and power output at the maximal power point for P-F treated PSCs. (f) Stability comparison of the unencapsulated PSCs without and with P-F treatment under ambient air conditions with 45% RH at 25 °C. 
 obtained (Fig.S5, ESI †) to illustrate the good reproducibility of the device performance. All the solar cell parameters improve, especially the V OC and FF values, which eventually leads to the corresponding PCE increase from 18.5 to 20.5%. To verify the long-term stability of the optimized PSCs, device degradation tests were performed on cells from the control and P-F treated groups, with initial efficiencies of 18.95 and 20.89%, respectively (Fig.S6, ESI †). These open-circuit devices were stored in a dark enclosed environment with 45% RH at 25 °C. Normalized PCE without encapsulated PSCs was measured as a function of aging time (Fig.4(f)). 
 Fig. 5 5 Fig. 5 (a) Dark J-V curves for the electron-only devices. The structure of the control device is ITO/SnO 2 /MAPbI 3 /PCBM/BCP/Ag, and P-F-PMATFA is introduced between MAPbI 3 and PCBM to obtain the P-F treated device. (b) Fitted Nyquist plots of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) recorded at 1.0 V in the dark. The equivalent circuit for the fitting is shown in the upper right-hand corner. (c) Plots of recombination resistance (R rec ) at different applied bias voltages extracted from Nyquist plots of the control and P-F treated PSCs in the dark. (d) Dependence of V OC on the light intensity. 
 Table 1 1 The fitted parameters of the TRPL spectra PSCs s 1 (ns) A 1 (%) s 2 (ns) A 2 (%) s ave (ns) Control 15.49 37.25 70.31 62.75 64.89 P-F treated 19.96 33.22 106.99 66.78 98.31 
 Table 2 2 Photovoltaic parameters of the PSCs with different concentrations of P-F-PMATFA Devices V OC (V) J SC (mA cm -2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) Control 1.09 23.9 73.91 19.19 0.5 mM 1.11 23.6 76.54 20.11 1 mM 1.13 24.1 77.10 21.01 5 mM 1.10 24.2 77.05 20.56 10 mM 1.10 23.9 75.89 19.99 
 Table 3 3 Photovoltaic parameters of the PSCs in different scanning directionsPSCsV Control RS 1.09 23.9 73.91 19.19 0.034 Control FS 1.08 23.6 73.09 18.54 P-F treated RS 1.13 24.1 77.10 21.01 0.005 P-F treated FS 1.13 24.0 77.31 20.91 OC (V) J SC (mA cm -2 ) FF (%) PCE (%) HI 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 
			 Published on 14 November 2024. Downloaded by University of California -San Diego on 2/22/2025 7:23:22 PM.View Article Online 
			 Published on 14 November 2024. Downloaded by University of California -San Diego on 2/22/2025 7:23:22 PM. View Article 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2024 Sustainable Energy Fuels, 2024, 8, 5917-5926 | 5925
Paper #: 3354_2
Title: Efficient and stable perovskite solar cells via surface defect passivation using 4-fluorobenzamine trifluoroacetate

Fig. S1 . S1 Fig. S1. (a) UV-vis absorption spectra of MAPbI 3 films without and with P-F treatment. (b) The corresponding Tauc spectra. 
 Fig. S2 . S2 Fig. S2. Deep XPS etching of MAPbI 3 films on F 1s after P-F treatment. 
 Fig. S3 . S3 Fig. S3. Solid 19 F NMR spectra of pure MAPbI 3 powders. 
 Fig. S4 . S4 Fig. S4. Steady-state photocurrent density and power output at the maximal power point for control PSCs. 
 Fig. S6 . S6 Fig. S6. The initial efficiency of unpackaged PSCs stability without P-F and with P-F treated.
