Paper #: 14853_1
Title: Single Layer of Crown Ether Enables Efficient, Stable, and Pb Leakage-Free Inverted Perovskite Solar Cells
Significant challenges in ensuring long-term stability, addressing environmental safety issues, and improving efficiency have hindered the commercialization of inverted Pb-based halide perovskite solar cells (PeSCs). One reasonable approach to addressing these issues is to place an effective buffer layer between the perovskite active layer and the electrode. In this study, we demonstrate the use of crown ether, di-tert-butyl dibenzo-18-crown-6, as a single buffer layer to improve the efficiency, longterm stability, and environmental safety of PeSCs for the first time. The crown ether buffer layer suppressed Ag diffusion from the Ag metal electrodes, thereby improving the performance and lifetime of the device. In addition, it effectively captures Pb ions that may leak into the environment during the whole lifetime of devices, thereby enhancing the environmental safety of PeSCs. Furthermore, PeSCs incorporating crown ethers as buffer layers demonstrated enhanced stability in a nitrogen atmosphere and achieved a high power conversion efficiency of 22.8%. Consequently, this crown ether buffer layer offers an effective and straightforward strategy capable of achieving efficient, stable, and environmentally safe PeSCs.
INTRODUCTION Pb-based halide perovskite materials have attracted considerable attention in solar cells because of their high absorption coefficients, low exciton binding energies, high defect tolerances, and long exciton diffusion lengths.  [1] [2] [3]  The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of Pb-based halide perovskite solar cells (PeSCs) has progressively increased over the past decade, reaching 25.7% and 26.1% for inverted and conventional PeSCs, respectively.  4, 5  However, addressing Pb toxicity and maintaining the stability of perovskite materials remain major challenges in their commercialization. Furthermore, despite the advantages of low-temperature solution processing, low-temperature operation, low levels of hysteresis, and simple device manufacturing, inverted (p-i-n) PeSCs still exhibit lower efficiency compared to conventional (n-i-p) PeSCs.  [6] [7] [8]  Interfacial engineering proves highly effective in enhancing the efficiency and stability of PeSCs by allowing control over crucial interfacial properties including energy-level alignment, charge transport, accumulation and recombination, and charge extraction.  [9] [10] [11] [12]  In addition, it shields the perovskite active layer from detrimental effects caused by external oxygen, moisture, and metal-electrode migration.  [13] [14] [15] [16]  Buffer layers have been reported to enhance PeSC performance by reducing the energy barrier between the electron transport layer (ETL) and electrode.  [17] [18] [19] [20]  Integration of buffer layers with the commonly used phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) ETL promotes electron movement and addresses issues related to incomplete surface coverage.  16, 21, 22  Previous studies have focused on preventing Ag-ion penetration and subsequent AgI insulator formation in inverted PeSCs by exploring how buffer layers can prevent Ag diffusion into the Ag cathode. These studies reveal that buffer layers effectively blocked Agion diffusion, thereby suppressing AgI formation. This blocking function ensures consistent electrical device characteristics over time, leading to significantly improved long-term performance stability.  23, 24  An interfacial layer designed to react with specific materials and form a barrier has demonstrated promise in restricting the diffusion of Pb ions.  [25] [26] [27] [28]  Efficient capture and management of Pb ions are critical for commercializing Pb-based PeSCs, as any environmental leakage could lead to significant pollution. Some research teams have introduced specific compounds into the buffer layer to react with Pb ions, forming chelates or converting Pb into an inert state, thereby preventing environmental leakage.  29, 30  These barrier layers contribute to maintaining device performance by blocking Pb ion penetration and protecting internal charge transport layers from chemical damage. Currently, however, no single buffer layer comprehensively addresses efficiency, stability, and Pb leakage issues. Therefore, developing a buffer layer capable of integrating these functions remains a critical objective. Given the unique properties of crown ethers, typically used to suppress phase transitions and enhance film quality in perovskite optoelectronic devices by regulating surface passivation and growth processes through size-specific binding to form complexes with cations,  [31] [32] [33]  we anticipated that applying them as buffer layers could reduce energy barriers and effectively capture Pb and Ag ions. In this study, we aimed to simultaneously enhance the efficiency and stability of inverted PeSCs while addressing the issue of Pb toxicity by using di-tert-butyl dibenzo-18-crown-6 (DTBDB18C6), also known as "crown ether" here, as a buffer layer. The interactions between crown ethers and Pb and Ag ions in PeSCs were examined using Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and time-offlight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS). Our findings suggest that crown ethers effectively impede ion movement, thereby improving device performance, long-term stability, and safety against Pb leakage. Additionally, as buffer layers, they reduce energy barriers and improve chargetransport capabilities, resulting in a PCE of 22.8% for inverted PeSCs based on Cs 0.05 (FA 0.92 MA 0.08 ) 0.95 Pb(I 0.92 Br 0.08 ) 3 . Thus, functionalizing crown ethers plays a significant role in enhancing the performance and stability of perovskite devices. 
 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The structure of the crown ether and its interactions with metal ions are illustrated in Figure  1a . Crown ethers are mainly composed of a central oxygen atom surrounded by outer carbon atoms. This distinctive structure enables crown ethers to effectively form complexes with specific metal ions or other ions. For instance, 18-crown-6 binds to Pb 2+ and Ag + ions because of its appropriate cavity size.  34, 35  The tert-butyl group attached to the basic structure of dibenzo-18-crown-6 makes this crown ether hydrophobic. The device fabrication process, illustrated in Figure  1b , involves solvent engineering. First, the MeO-2PACz solution was spin-coated onto a cleaned indium tin oxide (ITO) substrate. Subsequently, the perovskite precursor was spin-coated and annealed to form a uniform layer. Following this, the PCBM solution was spin-coated onto the perovskite active layer, and a well-dissolved crown ether solution was applied to produce a buffer layer without causing damage to the underlying layers. This was confirmed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) (Figure  1c ), which showed that the crown ether dissolved in ethanol did not cause any decomposition or degradation of the perovskite. The characteristic PbI 2 peaks approximately 13°were absent in both samples, while typical perovskite peaks were observed around ∼14°.  [36] [37] [38] [39]  In addition, the peak positions and intensities of both samples were almost identical, indicating minimal influence of the crown ether solution on perovskite decomposition. To verify the film formation of crown ether, AFM analysis was conducted, revealing that the surface roughness decreased with the introduction of crown ether (Figure  S1 ). Additionally, when only PCBM was coated, it was observed that PCBM incompletely covered the perovskite surface. In contrast, when crown ether was deposited on top of the PCBM layer, it completely covered the PCBM layer, preventing direct contact between the perovskite and the Ag electrode. This indicates that crown ether improves the quality of the PCBM layer, forming an excellent intermediate layer between the perovskite and the Ag electrode.  [40] [41] [42]  Figure  1d  schematically represents the movement of Ag and Pb cations within the perovskite device and how the crown ether captures them. Ag ions penetrating the perovskite device can be captured in the cationic voids of crown ethers, thereby preventing inward diffusion. Similarly, Pb ions, which can gradually degrade within the perovskite over the lifetime of PeSCs and potentially leak, can also be captured by crown ethers in their cationic voids, thereby inhibiting external leakage. To understand the impact of crown ether as a buffer layer on perovskite devices, devices were fabricated, as depicted in Figure  2a . We introduced a crown ether buffer layer of between the ETL and cathode in Cs 0.05 (FA 0.92 MA 0.08 ) 0.95 Pb-(I 0.92 Br 0.08 ) 3 -based (CsFAMA-based) inverted PeSCs. MeO-2PACz, PCBM, and Ag were used as the hole transport layer, ETL, and cathode, respectively. The energy levels of these device components are shown in Figure  2b . As expected, the crown ethers demonstrated high transparency in the absorbance region of the charge-generating perovskite layer, with a bandgap above 4 eV, as shown in Figure  S2 , highlighting their suitability as buffer layers. In addition, to integrate the crown ether buffer layer with high-energy bandgap, we spin coated crown ether with variable concentrations (0.05-0.3 wt %). The optimized concentration was determined to be 0.1 wt %, according to the device efficiency (Figure  S3 , Table  S1 ). To evaluate the effectiveness of crown ether as a buffer layer, we conducted a comparative analysis with bathocuproine (BCP), a commonly used buffer layer. The J-V characteristics of PeSC devices with no additional buffer layer, a BCP layer, and a crown ether layer are presented in Figure  2c . The J-V curves clearly demonstrate that device performance improves with the incorporation of both BCP and crown ether layers. Inserting an additional buffer layer between the PCBM layer and Ag cathode resulted in a significant increase in the PCE. Specifically, the PCE increased from 17.45% without a buffer layer to 21.02% with BCP, and further improved to 22.82% with crown ether. Importantly, the fill factor increased notably from 0.68 to 0.82 Table  S2 , indicating that these buffer layers enhance electron extraction by passivating the interface between Ag and PCBM.  40, 43  Figure  2d  presents the incident photon-to-current efficiency (IPCE) spectrum for each device, showing that the device with crown ether demonstrated higher IPCE across the entire wavelength range compared to other devices. The calculated J sc value from the IPCE spectrum matches well with the J sc value obtained from J-V measurements. In addition, the device with a crown ether layer exhibits increased current under forward bias and reduced leakage current under reverse bias voltage, as evidenced by the dark J-V curves in Figure  2e , leading to a high rectification ratio. Space charge-limited current experi- ments were conducted to evaluate trap density upon introducing a buffer layer (Figure  2f ). The voltage threshold for trap-filled limit was 0.67 V for the device without a buffer layer. This value decreased to 0.55 V with the BCP buffer layer and further to 0.48 V with crown ether. In the absence of an extra layer, PCBM showed a shallow trap section. Introducing a buffer layer effectively passivates these traps by improving the surface coverage of PCBM, thereby reducing trap density. Crown ether, expectedly, achieves the lowest trap density among the tested conditions. We investigated recombination at the interface between PCBM and the cathode by examining the relationship between J sc and incident light intensity (Figure  3a ). Comparing the linear fitting results of devices with and without buffer layers, devices including crown ethers showed higher scaling factor (α) values. This observation suggests that crown ethers reduce bimolecular recombination and trap density, indicating their role in trap passivation. Furthermore, in the measurement of the relationship between V oc and incident light intensity, devices with crown ethers showed a steeper slope in the fitting results (Figure  3b ). This suggests a decrease in defect density and effective trap passivation, leading to improved interface contact. Additionally, impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed to ascertain the influence of crown ethers on the internal resistance of the device (Figure  3c ). When PCBM was in direct contact with the metal, a Schottky contact formed due to significant work function difference, leading to a pronounced series resistance. The series resistance derived from fitting was measured as 45 Ω with crown ether, 17 Ω with BCP, and 60 Ω without an additional layer. This confirms that the buffer layer effectively reduced the series resistance, enhancing overall device performance. In terms of parallel resistance, the device with crown ether showed a value of 570,150 Ω, while the device with BCP showed a value of 216,770 Ω. In contrast, the device without a buffer layer exhibited 160,520 Ω (Table  S3 ). This indicates that the presence of crown ether significantly reduces leakage current and effectively passivates defects.  44  The bonding ability of crown ether to Pb ions was investigated using FTIR spectroscopy (Figure  4a ). Solutions of crown ether and PbI 2 dissolved separately in DMF did not exhibit characteristic peaks in the range of 820-850 cm -1 . However, the FTIR spectrum of the solution containing both PbI 2 and crown ether exhibited a distinct peak at 839.4 cm -1 ,  indicating interaction between Pb and the oxygen and carbon atoms in the crown ether.  45  This signifies an interaction between the functional groups of the crown ether. To further verify this interaction, XPS spectra were measured for ITO/ perovskite samples with and without crown ether (Figure  4b ). The results showed a shift in the Pb 4f 7/2 and 5/2 peaks toward low energy when crown ether was present, suggesting the formation of a bond between crown ether and Pb.  32  Crown ethers can form bonds through the interaction of the lone pairs of electrons of oxygen with Ag. In addition, to investigate if the oxygen in crown ether interacts with Ag, XPS spectra of ITO/ Ag samples with and without crown ether were measured (Figure  4c ). The results showed that with crown ether, the Ag 3d 5/2 and 3d 3/2 signals of the ITO/Ag film shifted to low energy levels. This shift suggests that the formation of a bond because of the strong interaction between crown ether and the Ag electrode.  46  The efficacy of crown ethers as ion-capturing materials was also investigated. The devices were aged in an N 2 atmosphere for 250 h using the ToF-SIM technique to monitor the elemental distribution in each layer. As evidenced by the results in Figure  4d-f , devices exhibited the diffusion of Ag ions into the perovskite layer. However, in devices containing a buffer layer, the penetration of Ag ions was significantly reduced. In particular, in the case of crown ethers, the peak of Ag ions present in the crown ether layer indicates the accumulation of Ag ions due to bonding with the crown ether (Figure  S4 ). Moreover, in devices without crown ether, the migration of Pb in the form of PbI 2 toward the Ag electrode was detected. In contrast, devices with crown ethers showed a significant reduction in Pb diffusion and a distinct peak related to Pb within the crown ether layer. These results clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the incorporated crown ether in capturing Ag and Pb ions within the perovskite device.  47  To evaluate the hydrophobic characteristics of the crown ethers, we performed water contact angle experiments (Figure  5a ). Water droplets were selectively applied to the perovskite film, PCBM film, BCP, and crown ether layers deposited on the PCBM layer. The water contact angles were 60.1°for the perovskite film, 78.4°for the sample with PCBM, 70.3°for the sample with BCP, and 80.1°for the sample with crown ether, confirming that the presence of the crown ether enhanced hydrophobicity. To understand the impact of integrating crown ethers on the stability of the perovskite devices, we directly dropped water to observe the decomposition reaction (Figure  5b ). The perovskite films and the perovskite film with only PCBM changed color to yellow within a minute of the water drop. However, the sample with a buffer layer deposited over PCBM maintained its original black color for 5 min. This result indicates that the incorporation of a buffer layer improved the resistance of the device to water. Figure  5c  shows the normalized PCEs of the devices with and without buffer layers stored in an N 2 atmosphere. The device without a buffer layer exhibited an initial efficiency of 64.0% after approximately 1800 h. In contrast, the device containing the crown ether demonstrated high stability, with an efficiency of 84.7%. This result indicates that the crown ether not only effectively blocked the movement of the metal electrode and reduced the shunt paths but also prevented the decomposition of the perovskite by moisture. 
 CONCLUSION We successfully demonstrated that the crown ether functioned as an efficient buffer layer in inverted PeSCs. The crown ether buffer layer can be readily deposited onto PCBM using a solution-based method, facilitating ohmic contact between PCBM and the Ag cathode and significantly improving the efficiency of PeSCs. In addition, ToF-SIMS, FTIR, and XPS experiments clearly demonstrated the capability of crown ether to capture Ag and Pb ions in the device. The crown ether not only prevented the formation of an insulator due to the corrosion of Ag and moisture penetration but also facilitated the establishment of ohmic contact, thereby improving device efficiency. Moreover, the hydrophobic nature of the crown ether enhanced the stability of solar cells. Devices containing the crown ether layer displayed a superior efficiency of 22.8% compared to the efficiencies of 17.45% to 21.02% measured in devices without an extra layer or with a BCP layer. After approximately 1800 h, the device without a buffer layer retained 64.0% of its original efficiency, whereas the device with the crown ether exhibited enhanced stability, with an efficiency of 84.7%. 
 EXPERIMENTAL SECTION 4.1. Materials. Phenethylammonium iodide (PEAI), methylammonium bromide (MABr, 99%) and formamidinium iodide (FAI, 99%) were purchased from Greatcell Solar, and cesium iodide was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Lead Iodide (PbI 2 , 99.99%) and lead bromide (PbBr 2 , >98.0%) and MeO-2PACz were purchased from TCI. PC 60 BM was purchased from EMNI. Bathocuproine (BCP), 4′,4″(5″)-Di-tert-butyldibenzo-18-crown-6 and all the anhydrous solvents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. 4.2. Devices Fabrication. First, the ITO glass substrate was thoroughly cleaned with a detergent, followed by sequential 15 min sonication treatments in water, acetone, and IPA to achieve a pristine state. Subsequently, the substrate was dried overnight in an oven and treated with UV-ozone for 15 min to increase hydrophilicity. The MeO-2PACz was dissolved in anhydrous ethanol at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL using sonication for 15 min. Next, within a glovebox, the solution was deposited onto the substrate and left for 5 s before undergoing a spin-coating process at 3000 rpm for 30 s. The coated substrate was then annealed at 100 °C for 10 min. Various types of perovskite solutions were prepared by mixing appropriate volumes of each component. The CsI solution was prepared by dissolving 1.5 M CsI in DMSO, and the FAPbI 3 solution was prepared by dissolving 1.4 M FAPbI 3 and 10% additional PbI 2 in a mixture of DMF/DMSO = 4:1. Similarly, the MAPbBr 3 solution was prepared by dissolving 1.4 M MAPbBr 3 in a mixture of DMF/DMSO = 4:1. After mixing the perovskite solutions, the resulting mixture was deposited on the MeO-2PACz layer. The perovskite film was deposited using a two-step coating process: first at 500 rpm for 7 s and then at 5000 rpm for 25 s. For the antisolvent, PEAI was dissolved in a mixture of CB/IPA = 9:1 at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL. The antisolvent was dripped onto the perovskite film 7 s before the high-speed step ended. Subsequently, the perovskite film was annealed at 100 °C for 30 min. A PCBM solution (20 mg/mL in CB) was spin-coated onto the perovskite film at 2000 rpm for 40 s. Di-tert-butyl dibenzo-18-crown-6 (0.1 wt % in Ethanol) was then spin-coated onto the PCBM layer at 4000 rpm for 30 s and annealed at 70 °C for 5 min. Finally, a 100 nm thick silver electrode was deposited as the cathode under a vacuum pressure of 5 × 10 -5 Torr. 
 Measurements and Characterizations. Current densityvoltage (J-V) characteristics of the device were measured in the N 2 atmosphere by using a Keithley 2400 source meter unit. The J-V curves were measured under simulated AM 1.5 light with an intensity of 100 mW/cm 2 . The IPCE spectra were measured using a Keithley 2400 source meter under the irradiation of monochromatic light generated by a xenon lamp. Electrical impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed using an Ivium compactStat.h electrochemical analyzer. XPS was measured by AXIS SUPRA (KRATOS Analytical Ltd.). XRD was performed using X'Pert-MPD (Philips, Netherlands). The UV-vis absorption was carried out using a JASCO V-570 spectrophotometer. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (ToF-SIMS) was performed using a ToF-SIMS 5 (ION TOF).  Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. (a) Chemical structure of Di-tert-butyldibenzo-18-crown-6 and schematic diagram of its interaction with metal ions. (b) Schematic depiction of each layer fabrication process. (c) XRD spectra of perovskite with/without the crown ether buffer layer. (d) Schematic diagram of metal ions being captured by crown ethers inserted into an inverted PeSC. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. (a) Schematic representation of inverted PeSC architecture and cross-section SEM images. (b) Energy level diagram and performance of the PeSC with/without the crown ether buffer layer. (c) J-V characteristics, (d) incident photon to current efficiency (IPCE), (e) dark J-V characteristics, and (f) dark J-V characteristics of the corresponding electron-only devices. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Light-intensity-dependent solar cell parameters: (a) short-circuit current density J sc , (b) open-circuit voltage V oc , and (c) fitting curves of the AC impedance spectra of devices with and without the crown ether buffer layer measured in the dark. The inset shows the equivalent circuit model employed for fitting the impedance spectra. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. (a) FTIR spectra of PbI 2 , crown ether, and a mixture of PbI 2 and crown ether. (b) Pb 4f XPS spectra of the perovskite film and crown ether-modified perovskite film. (c) Ag 3d XPS spectra of the Ag electrode and crown ether-modified Ag electrode. (d-f) ToF-SIMS elemental depth profiles of PeSCs aged for 250 h in the dark under an N 2 atmosphere. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. (a) Static contact angle measurements with water on top of the perovskite, PCBM, and crown ether films. (b) Photographs of perovskite, perovskite/PCBM, perovskite/PCBM/crown ether after water was dropped on the surface for several minutes. (c) Normalized PCE. Devices were nonencapsulated and stored in N 2 conditions. 
 ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT * sı Supporting Information government (MSIT) (2021R1C1C1014039) and the Basic Science Research Program through the NRF of Korea funded by the Ministry of Education (2022R1A6A1A03051158, RS-2023-00247069). 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c12808 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2024, 16, 50982-50989 Downloaded via UNIV OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO on February 26, 2025 at 02:33:55 (UTC).See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles. 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c12808 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2024, 16, 50982-50989 
			 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c12808
Paper #: 14853_2
Title: Single Layer of Crown Ether Enables Efficient, Stable, and Pb Leakage-Free Inverted Perovskite Solar Cells

Figure S2 . S2 Figure S2. Transmittance of DTBDB18C6 thin film 
 
 
 
 Table S1 . S1 The performance parameters of perovskite solar cells with varying crown ether concentration Crown ether JSC VOC FF PCE Concentration (mA•cm -2 ) (V) (%) (%) Crown ehter 0.05wt% 22.17 1.16 0.77 19.70 Crown ehter 0.1wt% 23.93 1.17 0.82 22.82 Crown ehter 0.2wt% 21.79 1.15 0.81 20.31 Crown ehter 0.3wt% 20.03 1.11 0.71 15.75 
 Table S2 . S2 Performance of solar cells with and without crown ether layer. Cathode interlayer JSC (mA•cm -2 ) VOC (V) FF (%) PCE (%) PCBM 22.49 1.15 0.67 17.45 PCBM/BCP 22.84 1.16 0.80 21.02 PCBM/Crown ether 23.93 1.17 0.82 22.82 
 Table S3 . S3 Series and Shunt Resistance Values Extracted from the Impedance spectra of ToF-SIMS elemental depth profiles of perovskite solar cell. Figure 3c Cathode interlayer Rs(Ω) Rrec(Ω) PCBM 60 160520 PCBM/BCP 17 216770 PCBM/Crown ether 45 570150 Figure S4.
