Paper #: 13831_1
Title: Novel Passivation and Gettering Strategy for Silicon Wafer by Al 2 O 3 /n-poly-Si/SiO x Stack for High-Efficiency p-Type Passivating Tunnel Oxide Contact Solar Cells
This study focuses on the enhanced passivation and gettering of boron-doped ptype solar grade silicon wafers by incorporating carrier-selective and passivating tunnel oxide contact (TOPCon). A symmetrical stack of aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3 )/ p-doped n-type polysilicon (n-poly-Si)/ ultrathin silicon oxide (SiO x ) in conjunction with long cycles of forming gas annealing is used for enhancing the silicon wafer quality with a novel approach. Multilayer of n-poly-Si/SiO x on p-type crystalline silicon wafer exhibits an implied open-circuit voltage (iV oc ) of 726 mV, effective carrier lifetime (τ eff ) of 857 μs, and a low recombination current density ( J o ) of 1.9 fA cm À2 when subjected to a postdeposition annealing (PDA) of phosphorus-doped hydrogenated amorphous silicon (n-a-Si:H) at 820 °C. To boost passivation and gettering quality, 10 nm-thick Al 2 O 3 layers on both sides of n-poly-Si/SiO x samples are added. This leads to improved τ eff (962 μs), reduced J o (1.1 fA cm À2 ), and higher iV oc (728 mV). Herein, a thinner 50 nm n-poly-Si layer for improved properties is applied. The experiments show improved passivation and gettering. A Quokka-3 simulation examines the potential of high-efficiency ptype TOPCon cells. A novel solar-grade p-type wafer quality enhancement approach is introduced, amalgamated with Quokka-3 results, which could be a milestone in high-efficiency p-type TOPCon solar cell production.
Introduction One of the greatest findings of modern physics is the innovation in the application of photovoltaic (PV) effect, which involves the conversion of sunlight into electrical energy.  [1]  Due to its sustainability, widespread adoption, and ecological benefits, the demand for PV energy has reached unparalleled levels.  [2]  As a result, a multitude of solar cell structures incorporating different semiconductor materials have emerged. Among these, crystalline silicon (c-Si) solar cell technology has remained dominant in the PV industry due to its consistently high conversion efficiency, and affordability, besides the established manufacturing process.  [3]  The efficiency of solar cells and modules has been improving constantly with newer cell structures and the fabrication sequence has been continuously evolving. In recent years, solar cells of high efficiency having different specialties such as rear emitter silicon heterojunction, carrier selective contact based on transition metal oxides, double-barrier quantum-well-based tunnel oxide-passivated contacts, passivated emitter and rear local contact (PERL), passivated emitter and rear contact (PERC), interdigitated back contact, and heterojunction with intrinsic thin layer have emerged, starting with monocrystalline silicon (c-Si) wafer.  [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23]  Silicon solar cells fabricated with p-type silicon wafers are still the working horse in favor of the PV industry.  [24]  It has an advantage over the n-type silicon solar cells due to the lower cost of silicon wafer.  [25]  According to the Chinese company, LONGi, the cost of p-type Czochralski silicon wafers is around 8% less than n-type wafers.  [26]  PERC technology is the industry standard for high-efficiency p-type c-Si PV. The efficiency of this technology, which originally emerged in the late 1980s, was initially 22.8%.  [27]  Since then, tremendous progress has been carried out, culminating in the implementation of the PERL architecture, which attained a record-breaking efficiency of 25%.  [28]  In recent years, there is growing attention in solar cells with passivating contacts, that consist of an interface oxide in combination with a deposited silicon layer doped with pentavalent element (for n-type) or trivalent element (for p-type),  [29, 30]  which is commonly known as passivating tunnel oxide contact (TOPCon).  [31]  The advantages associated with TOPCon solar cells encompass several key aspects, which include: 1) compatibility with well-established PERC production lines, allowing for the utilization of existing high-temperature firing processes for metal contact formation as well as front passivation and antireflection coating procedures; 2) incorporation of a full area tunneling contact, enabling enhanced fill factor (FF) by eliminating lateral carrier transport; 3) elimination of the need for laser opening by simplifying the manufacturing process; and 4) wide process flexibility and versatility with less constraints on the deposition of a-Si:H precursor layer achievable through techniques such as low-pressure chemical vapor deposition,  [32] [33] [34] [35]  plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD),  [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] [44]  and sputtering.  [45]  TOPCon solar cells made with p-type silicon wafer in laboratory scale have proven higher efficiency (26%) than that made with n-type silicon wafer (25.8%). However, n-type TOPCon solar cells are already gaining momentum in the industrial production line, whereas p-type TOPCon solar cells are still struggling to enter in the commercial production phase. It is because the commercial n-type TOPCon solar cells utilize high-quality n-type silicon wafers with relatively higher bulk lifetime than solar grade p-type silicon wafers along with a standard boron-doped emitter on the front side and a thin silicon oxide tunnel layer employed on the rear side. Additionally, a phosphorus-doped poly-Si rear emitter with a back surface field (BSF) is employed. This structure ensures higher conversion efficiency of n-type TOPCon solar cells in industrial production basically due to higher bulk lifetime of solar grade n-type silicon wafers. On the contrary, such attempts have not been successful in commercializing highefficiency p-type TOPCon solar cells  [41, 45, 46]  due to the minimal bulk carrier lifetime despite the obvious ease of transforming existing PERC solar cells production lines for the p-type TOPCon solar cells production in industrial scale with minimal changes. This clearly shows that the poor bulk lifetime, which means poor quality of solar grade p-type silicon wafer, is the major bottleneck for commercial production of p-type TOPCon solar cells despite the proven higher efficiency in laboratory scale and greater ease to transform PERC lines to p-type TOPCon solar cell production lines in the industries. This factor accounts for the notable interest in the research on p-type TOPCon solar cells, which could substantiate its industrial relevance. On these backgrounds, this study intends to find significant pathways to bridge the gap between a bulk lifetime of the starting material, which is the solar grade p-type silicon wafers, and the effective carrier lifetime of the processed wafers after passivation and gettering during solar cell fabrication through the analysis of laboratory-based experimental as well as computed-based simulation results. Simulation is commonly utilized in the study of p-type solar cells with p-type passivating rear contacts and BSF.  [47] [48] [49] [50]  This approach offers advantages as specific input parameters can be derived from test structures or from the characterization of those structures.  [51]  However, the aim is to address the first objective, which is to present the development of a p-type TOPCon cell structure and its fabrication sequence, with the aim of establishing the technology for industrial production. In addition, the systematic investigation of the symmetric TOPCon structured on both surfaces of solar-grade silicon wafers of p-type, where very thin SiO x layers were first deposited on silicon surfaces using chemical oxidization and the n-poly-Si contact layers were formed by PECVD deposition of hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) with in-situ phosphorus diffusion using PH 3 followed by annealing at high temperature. Passivation properties were furthermore improved by depositing Al 2 O 3 layers on both sides of the symmetric configuration of TOPCon and the resulting structure with both sides passivated silicon surfaces with promising efficiency for solar cells was attained. The properties such as minority carrier effective lifetime (τ eff ), implied open-circuit voltage (iV oc ), and recombination current density ( J o )  [52, 53]  were measured by the photoconductive decay method. Furthermore, it depicts a procedure for optimization of the passivating layers that provide the base for metallic contact with bulk silicon and eventually aims at using this structure in the design of p-type TOPCon solar cells with high conversion efficiency. Also, the deposition of an Al 2 O 3 layer was established as an encouraging nominee for this purpose. To establish this, Quokka 3 simulation  [54] [55] [56]  was carried out with the passivation parameters obtained through experiments, and the results are analyzed. The findings demonstrate the feasibility of utilizing a rear-emitter n-TOPCon structure on a p-type silicon wafer for its possible application in high-efficiency solar cells or modules. 
 Experimental Section Solar-grade boron-doped CZ silicon wafers with (100) crystal orientation, having resistivity of 1-3 Ω cm and thickness of 200 AE 20 μm, were employed for the investigation of passivation properties. Surface defects were initially eliminated by treating the samples with an alkaline solution containing sodium hydroxide and sodium hypochlorite in deionized water at a temperature of 70-80 °C for a duration of 10 min. Subsequently, the samples underwent a sequential cleaning process following the standard radio corporation of America (RCA) cleaning to remove any metallic as well as organic contaminants.  [57]  The samples were further subjected to dilute hydrofluoric acid (HF 10%) treatment at room temperature to remove the silicon oxide layer formed on the wafer surfaces. Sample surfaces were subjected to chemical oxidation using nitric acid (HNO 3 ) to form a layer of SiO x having ≈1.5 nm thickness. Then, the samples were subjected to deposition of a-Si layer on both sides with in situ phosphorus doping, which was followed by annealing at an optimized temperature of 820 °C for crystallization and formation of n-poly-Si layers. As a result, 50 nm-thick n-poly-Si layers were formed on the SiO x layer. This deposition was achieved using PECVD, utilizing gases such as silane (SiH 4 ), hydrogen (H 2 ), and phosphine (PH 3 ). Subsequently, solid-phase crystallization at high temperature was employed for the silicon substrate. To enhance the properties of the deposited material, a postdeposition annealing (PDA) process was conducted in a thermal furnace. The annealing process took place at an elevated temperature ranging from 820 to 900 °C for a duration of 30 min. A high-purity nitrogen atmosphere was maintained throughout the annealing process. Subsequently, postcrystallization annealing was carried out in a rapid thermal processing furnace with forming gas for 120 min at 400 °C as a hydrogenation process. A 10 nm-thick Al 2 O 3 layer was deposited by atomic-layer-deposition (ALD) method for the top layer followed by a thermal treatment at 450 °C for 15 min. The forming gas annealing (FGA) cycle was repeated at 400 °C for 120 min for further enhancement of surface passivation. Figure  1a ,b shows the diagrammatic structure of the double-sided symmetrically passivated samples, which were fabricated in sequence for the comprehensive experimental studies without and with Al 2 O 3 layers, respectively. A spectroscopic ellipsometry was employed to accurately measure the ultrathin SiO 2 tunnel oxide layer as well as of n-poly-Si layer's thicknesses. The thickness of ultrathin layer of tunnel oxide was confirmed through the thickness calibration curve of the process standardized prior to the tunnel oxide deposition. The passivation quality was assessed through τ eff values, which were measured by QSSPC (Sinton-WCT-120). Using the experimentally derived passivation parameters, p-type TOPCon solar cells were virtually fabricated through Quokka-3 simulation. This is how the prospective cell parameters were extracted. Simulation parameters were implemented based on the structure of a p-type TOPCon cell, which used an n-poly-Si rear emitter contact as depicted in Figure  2 . The simulation study was conducted to fit the QSSPC measurements of symmetrical samples that were experimentally generated to obtain the J 0 values. Additionally, J-V curves under illumination were derived for the intended cell structure by simulation. 
 Results and Discussion 
 Comparison of Passivation of Silicon Surface by n-Poly-Si Annealed At Different Temperatures Optimization of annealing temperature for crystallization of n-a-Si: H, which was deposited by PECVD, is a crucial step of this study. To prepare the samples, tunneling oxides were deposited on both sides, followed by the deposition of n-type amorphous silicon (n-a-Si). Subsequently, the samples underwent PDA at temperatures ranging from 820 to 900 °C. The annealing process typically leads to the subsequent outcomes: 1) dissociation of Si─H bonds and the subsequent diffusion of hydrogen in the c-Si substrate; 2) restructuring of the ultrathin SiO 2 layer and the establishment of pinholes; and 3) the phosphorus doping of poly-Si layer through the tunnel oxide layer toward the silicon substrate.  [58] [59] [60] [61]  In this study, the deposition of ultrathin SiO x plus a-Si: H(n) layers was carried out with the objective of optimizing the annealing process for high-quality passivation. For this purpose, the thickness of SiO x was estimated to be ≈1.5 nm, and that of the a-Si: H was measured to be ≈50 nm with spectroscopic ellipsometry by controlling the deposition rate and time. Figure  3  demonstrates the variation in the quality of surface passivation relating to variation in τ eff , J 0 , and iV oc with the annealing temperature. It was found that annealing at 820 °C resulted in the formation of n-poly-Si with superior surface passivation quality and phosphorus gettering, which is reflected in terms of highest τ eff, iV oc, and lowest J 0 . The quality of the sample improved as the annealing temperature decreased until it reached optimized annealing conditions at 820 °C with the highest iV oc . It could be due to elevated temperature-induced degradation in passivation properties. Several factors are there to affect the passivation quality with elevated temperature, including carrier concentration, carrier mobility, bandgap, doping concentration, and thermal expansion. The samples with n-poly-Si layers of ≈50 nm thickness  were annealed at a temperature of 820 °C after n-a-Si:H deposition, for which the iV oc = 709 mV, J 0 = 5.08 fA cm À2 , and τ eff = 535 μs (at the injection level of one sun illumination) were measured. The best among the measured parameters of samples was annealed at other temperatures as shown in Figure  3 . The high value of τ eff measured for a boron-doped silicon wafer is not just due to the passivation of surface by tunnel oxide and n-poly-Si layers on both sides but also due to phosphorus gettering of the silicon wafer from both sides due to a reasonably thinner (≈50 nm) layer of n-poly-Si. A synergy of surface quality improvement by passivating layers and that of bulk silicon quality improvement by gettering resulted in a reasonably high effective lifetime of the samples.  [62]  3.2. Forming Gas Annealing: A Very Effective Method for Boosting Passivation and Gettering Passivation quality of samples with symmetrically layered films on both sides of the silicon wafer was boosted further when FGA was carried out at 400 °C for 2 h in a rapid thermal processing system after PDA at 820, 840, 860, 880, and 900 °C.  [63]  The highest values of τ eff and the iV oc measured were 857 μs and 726 mV, respectively for 50 nm-thick n-poly-Si layer obtained after annealing at 820 °C, when the FGA was performed. The τ eff and the iV oc were measured at the injection level corresponding to one sun illumination. A considerable decline in J 0 to 1.9 fA cm À2 was noted with n-poly-Si layer of thickness 50 nm, which was annealed at 820 °C and then J 0 was found to increase with annealing temperature up to 900 °C. The sample exposed to thermal annealing at 820 °C exhibited excellent passivation through tunnel oxide using n-poly-Si, as observed in this study. Hydrogenation during FGA must have convinced a substantial reduction in interface defect density (D it ), which resulted in improved passivation, as seen in the form of higher τ eff and the iV oc . It can be inferred that the dangling bonds of silicon at the interfaces and at different defects such as point and extended defects are passivated by hydrogen, which reduces the carrier recombination and other relevant characteristics of the device.  [63]  Hydrogen can also passivate grain boundaries of n-poly-Si. The interaction between hydrogen and impurities in silicon can also occur, and the characteristics of those interactions are dependent on the types of impurities present.  [64]  The presence of hydrogen can deactivate shallow dopants, including both acceptor and donor types, which can result in variation in the resistivity of the silicon wafer. This is the reason for the enhancement in carrier lifetime after FGA. Achieving better passivation quality for the tunnel oxide layer requires careful control over its properties and stoichiometry. This treatment allowed superior passivation at 50 nm-thick n-poly-Si layer. The use of FGA resulted in an insignificant J 0 value, indicating that the structure has the potential to fabricate a high-efficiency TOPCon cell. Figure  4a  illustrates the enhancements observed in τ eff and iV oc after FGA to the deposited samples at various temperatures. Both τ eff and iV oc values rose to a level greater than PDA values. Figure  4b  demonstrates the variation in J 0 after FGA treatment under the same conditions as mentioned earlier, resulting in a minimal J 0 value of ≈1.9 fA cm À2 . Minority carrier lifetime measurement was used as an indirect procedure to assess the quality of resulting surfaces and bulk of silicon wafer. Apart from silicon surface passivation, the atomic hydrogen can also interact with metallic impurities such as Fe, Cr, Ni, Cu, and Au in silicon to diminish their carrier recombination in silicon, and hence a clear reason of elevation in τ eff and depression in J 0 is due to enhancement in the quality of surfaces as well as bulk of silicon wafer. 
 Passivation Quality Enhancement through the Al 2 O 3 Layer Thermal ALD deposited a 10 nm-thin layer of Al 2 O 3 on both sides of the silicon samples, further enhancing passivation characteristics. The deposition of the Al 2 O 3 layer leads to a notable reduction in D it , consequently resulting in effective passivation. The Al 2 O 3 was activated by N 2 annealing, which was followed by FGA. The Al 2 O 3 :H layer formed after FGA serves as a source of passivating hydrogen (H) and greatly enhances the doping of the n-poly-Si layer by introducing a fixed negative charge in the Al 2 O 3 layer. The deposition of Al 2 O 3 on the n-poly-Si layer facilitates the release of hydrogen (H) within the tunnel oxide and poly-Si layer interface due to the FGA process. Utilizing Al 2 O 3 layers on both sides, it was possible to achieve optimal passivation even with a relatively thin layer of n-poly-Si of thickness 50 nm. τ eff was found to further increase to 962 μs with the capping of the Al 2 O 3 layer on both sides followed by activation in N 2 and FGA, as shown in Figure  5 . Similarly, the iV oc value reached 728 mV. The most significant result was observed in the case of J o , which reduced to a significantly low value of 1.1 fA cm À2 , indicating that the novelty of this investigation on p-type silicon wafers can be significant in materializing highly efficient TOPCon solar cells starting with p-type Si wafer in an industrial scale. 
 Simulation Results The two-cell structures, p-type TOPCon and p-PERC cells, were studied through simulation. TOPCon solar cell on p-type silicon substrate was considered to have n-poly-Si rear emitter, as illustrated in Figure  6a , and the other one with the conventional PERC solar cell with p-type wafer, as demonstrated in Figure  6b . The investigation based on numerical simulation revealed that for the low-quality c-Si wafers with a bulk lifetime shorter than 350 μs, the regular rear emitter p-type TOPCon solar cell outperforms the PERC solar cell structures in terms of performance  [36]  and in the case of bulk lifetime exceeding 350 μs, it shows even better performance. As shown in Figure  5 , the well-passivated samples with the n-poly-Si exhibit an effective lifetime of 962 μs and a saturation current density of 1.1 fA cm À2 . Those experimentally obtained values were inserted for the Quokka-3 simulation as input parameters to expect a very high conversion efficiency of the resulting cell based on the superior passivation that had been accomplished. Consequently, the n-poly-Si rear emitter in the p-type TOPCon cell is expected to perform better than the PERC solar cell structure. Comparability of simulation results in favor of the n-polysilicon rear emitter p-type TOPCon and PERC cells is shown in Figure  6c , and it also illustrates the compatibility of the simulated J-V characteristics of the cells. The resulting performance parameters of the cell structure with experimentally obtained background values of J o = 1.1 fA cm À2 , τ eff = 962 μs, and initially assumed bulk lifetime (τ bulk ) of 350 μs and that of PERC cell with the same input parameters for simulation, basically extracted from elsewhere,  [3, 47, 65]  are shown in Table  1 . It indicates that, for the best passivation parameters accomplished until now, the rear emitter p-type TOPCon and PERC can reach the efficiencies up to 23.43% and 22.01%, respectively. Based on these findings, it can be concluded that the achieved cell efficiency of ≈23.43%, as depicted in Figure  6c , represents the potential efficiency achievable for commercial production using solar-grade silicon wafers. Furthermore, the TOPCon structure p-type wafers and rear emitter exhibit superior performance compared to the PERC solar cell structure. Based on these results, this type of solar cell was found to be an industrially promising cell structure for mass production. Furthermore, in this study, the influences of material properties involving bulk lifetime (τ bulk ) on the performances of the n-poly-Si for rear emitter p-type TOPCon solar cells were also investigated. Figure  7  illustrates the variation in performing parameters of the cells with bulk lifetime (τ bulk ). The efficiency of the proposed solar cells with n-poly-Si rear emitter exhibits higher sensitivity with the τ bulk , that is, the efficiency descends instantly in the low-τ bulk zone but improves remarkably in the  high-τ bulk zone. This suggests that utilizing a low-quality p-type silicon wafer with a low bulk lifetime (τ bulk ) of tens of microseconds is not favorable to achieving competitive efficiency in p-type TOPCon solar cells with an n-poly-Si rear emitter. On the other hand, a high-quality p-type Si wafer with reasonably high τ bulk results in high-efficiency TOPCon solar cells with n-polysilicon rear emitter. Furthermore, the findings with reasonably high τ bulk, as illustrated in Figure  7 , exhibit a substantial performance parameter with ≈0.7% gain in efficiency. This results in the conversion efficiency of the targeted TOPCon solar cell on p-type silicon wafer with n-poly-Si rear emitter as high as 24.19%. Through this simulation study, it is demonstrated that the TOPCon cells with p-type wafer and n-polysilicon rear emitter are effective in performance as compared to PERC solar cell. It can be inferred that the fabrication of this type of cell is basically similar to front emitter n-type TOPCon cell in terms of fabrication sequence, which has already been established in industrial production next to p-type PERC cells. The underlying principles that justify the improvement in performance parameters of the cell with the increase in bulk lifetime of silicon are briefly discussed here. FF of a solar cell is given by Equation (1)  [66]  FF ¼ FF o ð1 À 1.1R s Þ þ R 2 s 5.4 Â 1 À V oc þ 0.7 V oc FF o R sh ð1 À 1.1R s Þ þ R 2 s 5.4 (1) Equation (1) shows that the actual FF of a solar cell is related to the ideal FF (FF o ) through open-circuit voltage (V oc ), series resistance (R s ), and shunt resistance (R sh ). Similarly, Equation (2)  shows how V oc is directly proportional to minority carrier diffusion length (L diff ). V oc α lnðL 2 diff Þ α 2 lnðL diff Þ α lnðL diff Þ (2) Subsequently, Equation (3) clearly exhibits that L diff is directly related to the lifetime of the minority carriers in the bulk, which is commonly known as a bulk lifetime of silicon, the starting material taken for solar cell fabrication. L diff ¼ ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi DðμÞτ bulk p (3) By analyzing the three Equation (  1 )-(  3 ), improvement in FF as well as V oc with the increase in the bulk lifetime of the silicon wafers, as depicted in the simulation results of Figure  7 , is in full agreement with the fundamental principles of solar cells. The experimental results reported in this article demonstrate that a very high-quality passivation and effective gettering of c-Si wafers can be accomplished by a stack of Al 2 O 3 /n-poly-Si/SiO x , for which tunnel oxide was deposited by chemical oxidation, n-a-Si:H was deposited by PECVD, and Al 2 O 3 was deposited by ALD. Optimization of the processing parameters in those processes can lead to the production of high-efficiency p-type TOPCon solar cells. Moreover, the lower cost of p-type silicon wafers compared to n-type wafers, and the feasibility for retrofitting the long-tested   and c ) the simulated J-V characteristics curves of those two types of solar cells showing parameters for comparison.  [3, 47, 65]  PERC cell production line to transform into p-type TOPCon production line, makes rear emitter p-type TOPCon cells as a promising and cost-effective candidate for near future. Undoubtedly, substantial efforts are required to showcase the successful retrofitting of an existing PERC production line in conjunction with the commercially established n-type TOPCon line to evolve into a p-type TOPCon line in the industries. 
 Conclusion The purpose of this study is to enhance the carrier lifetime in solar-grade p-type silicon wafers. It was achieved by optimizing annealing of n-a-Si:H to transform it into an n-poly-Si layer, intended for use as a rear emitter in high-efficiency p-type TOPCon solar cells. By depositing 10 nm-thick Al 2 O 3 layers on both sides and conducting FGA, improved passivation properties and gettering effects were obtained, resulting in enhanced carrier lifetime. The study provides valuable insights for optimizing the n-poly-Si layer as a rear emitter in p-type TOPCon solar cells, showcasing the potential for improved performance and cost reduction. A preferred n-poly-Si layer thickness of ≈50 nm was identified, leading to significant improvements in τ eff , iV oc , and J 0 values for the p-type silicon after the posthydrogenation process. Using the Quokka-3 simulation and experimental investigations, the rear emitter TOPCon solar cell outperformed conventional p-PERC solar cells, achieving an efficiency of ≈23.43%. Further improvements to ≈24.19% are possible with better quality c-Si wafers (τ bulk ≈ 1200 μs). This highlights the potential of n-poly-Si passivating contact on solar-grade p-type CZ silicon wafers, utilizing optimized thin layers of silicon oxide (1.5 nm) and aluminum oxide (10 nm).   Figure 1 . 1 Figure 1. a) Symmetrical structure with tunnel oxide (T ox ) and n-poly-Si layers and b) with top thin layers of Al 2 O 3 on both sides. 
 Figure 2 . 2 Figure 2. Schematic diagram of p-type TOPCon cell with n-poly-Si rear-emitter. 
 Figure 3 . 3 Figure 3. Variation of a) minority carrier effect lifetime (τ eff ), implied open-circuit voltage (iV oc ), and b) J 0 with PDA temperature for the formation of n-poly-S layer of 50 nm thickness. 
 Figure 4 . 4 Figure 4. a) Variation in minority carrier lifetime and implied open-circuit voltage and b) recombination current density at various PDA temperatures for 50 nm-thick n-poly-Si layer after FGA. 
 Figure 5 . 5 Figure 5. Improvement in τ eff , iV oc , and J o for the sample with symmetrically stacked layers of Al 2 O 3 /n-poly-Si/SiO 2 on both sides of p-type Si wafer after FGA. 
 Figure 6 . 6 Figure 6. Schematics of a) TOPCon with n-poly-Si rear emitter on p-type wafer, b) p-PERC,and c) the simulated J-V characteristics curves of those two types of solar cells showing parameters for comparison. [3, 47, 65]   
 [fA cm À2 ] 1 5 - 60 J 0 ,Figure 7 . 56007 Figure 7. Variation in a) V oc , b) J sc , c) FF, and d) η of p-type TOPCon solar cell with τ bulk , as obtained from Quokka-3 simulation. 
 Table 1 . 1 Shows the comparison of properties of the investigated cell with PERC cell.Front emitter (n þ , for PERC) or front surface field (p þ for n-type polysilicon)Sheet resistance, R sheet , n þ layer [Ω sq À1 ] -120J 0e , n þþ [fA cm À2 ] -600J 0e , n þ [fA cm À2 ] -40 Junction depth, n þþ [nm] -314 Sheet resistance, R sheet , p þ [Ω sq À1 ] 100 -J 0e , p þ Structural parameters p-Type TOPCon p-PERC Bulk properties: Background bulk lifetime, τ bulk [μs] 350 350 Wafer thickness, W [μm] 170 170 Wafer resistivity, ρ [Ω cm] 0.5 0.5 Front metal grid: Contact pitch [μm] 1200 1200 Finger width [μm] 30 30 Finger contact width [μm] 30 30 Rear metal grid: Contact pitch [μm] 1200 - Finger width [μm] 30 - Finger contact width [μm] 30 - 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (4 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (5 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (6 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (7 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (8 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License 
			 Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301031 2301031 (9 of 9) © 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH 21944296, 2024, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301031 by University Of California San Diego, Wiley Online Library on [25/02/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
