Paper #: 19722_1
Title: Passivation mechanism of the perovskite upper interface based on MAPbBr 3 quantum dots for efficient and stable perovskite solar cells †
High quality perovskite films play a key role in efficient perovskite solar cells (PSCs). It is an effective way to obtain high quality perovskite films via post treatment. In our latest work, a synergistic co-passivation strategy of sequentially using functional oleyl amine-coated MAPbBr 3 quantum dots (M-QDs) and noctylammonium iodide (OAI) solutions to treat the perovskite layer was reported. Herein, the M-QDs show a good passivation effect. However, the passivation mechanism of M-QDs in PSCs is unclear. Accordingly, by using some powerful tools, we systematically explore the relationship between the nanostructure and optoelectronic properties of perovskite films, and further reveal the internal relationship between the passivation at different concentrations of M-QDs and the performance of Cs 0.05 (FA 0.85 MA 0.15 ) 0.95 Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 -based PSCs. After being treated with an appropriate concentration (0.3 mM) of M-QDs, the perovskite film displays very good crystallinity, flatness and compactness, resulting in an optimized PCE of ∼21% along with a high open circuit voltage of 1.17 V. Moreover, the optimized PSC without encapsulation shows excellent stability both in N 2 and air environments.
Introduction Organic-inorganic lead halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have attracted tremendous attention in the past decade due to a rapid rise in their power conversion efficiency (PCE) of over 26% from 3.8%, indicating huge commercial application prospects.  [1] [2] [3]  In traditional PSCs, the solution process is always used to prepare polycrystalline perovskite lms, in which, numerous defects are unavoidable at the grain boundaries and surface.  [4] [5] [6]  These defects will increase the carrier recombination, causing degradation in the performance of PSCs.  7, 8  To decrease the defects, passivation is a widely used strategy.  [9] [10] [11] [12] [13]  Kylie R. Catchpole's group used GuaBr and n-OABr as passivation materials on the perovskite surface. The obtained perovskite lm shows fewer defects than that of the control one, leading to signicant improvements in the PCE and stability of PSCs.  10  Qingbo Meng's group used tri-benzyl phosphine oxide (TBPO) to passivate the perovskite surface, resulting in PSCs with excellent performance. 11 Yongsheng Liu's group introduced two solution processable two-dimensional (2D) conjugated polymers, namely, 2DP-F and 2DP-O, to passivate interfacial density at the perovskite upper interface, obtaining a larger open-circuit voltage and higher PCE.  12  Chong Chen's group developed oleyl amine-coated PbSO 4 (PbO) 4 QDs to passivate surface defects, improving the hole transfer efficiency from the perovskite layer to the hole transport layer (HTL), meanwhile, preventing oxygen and moisture from permeating into the perovskite layer, and contributing to high performance PSCs.  13  Recently, we used functional oleyl amine-coated MAPbBr 3 quantum dots (M-QDs) and n-octylammonium iodide (OAI) solution to passivate the perovskite layer in sequence, aer which the defects in the perovskite lm reduced evidently.  14  Here, M-QDs and OAI play different roles in the passivation process. Among them, M-QDs are used to optimize grain boundary defects and improve crystal quality, while OAI is mainly used to form a two-dimensional perovskite layer. As a result, the target PSC treated with both materials achieved an excellent PCE of 22.01%. Notability, for the PSC device only using M-QDs as the passivation material, the PCE shows a lager enhancement (from 18.9% to 20.8%) of ten percent compared with that of the control one, while the PCE of the device treated with only OAI displays a small enhancement (from 18.9% to 20.5%) of eight percent. Therefore, the passivation ability by M-QDs is better than that by OAI. However, the passivation mechanism and effect of M-QDs in PSCs are not clear and a systematic study is still needed. In this work, to solve the above problems, powerful tools are used to understand the relationship between the nanostructure, which is dependent on the concentrations of M-QDs, and optoelectronic properties of perovskite lms, and to further reveal the internal relationship and mechanisms between the passivation and the PSC performance. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and ultravioletvisible (UV-vis) absorption spectra are used to explore the morphology, structure and optical properties of synthesized M-QDs, respectively. The atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements are carried out to observe the surface morphology of the perovskite lms. Due to the inclusion of trace DMF in M-QD solution, some small grains of perovskite on the surface and between the grain boundaries undergo dissolution-recrystallization, improving the micro crystallinity of the perovskite, and thus leading to defect passivation. Scanning probe microscopy techniques (i.e., Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM)) are applied to explore the effects of charge separation and extraction at the nanometer scale of M-QDs on the perovskite lms. The density functional theory (DFT) and density of states (DOS) calculations are used for auxiliary understanding of the interaction mechanism of the perovskite/M-QD interfaces. The results indicate that there is strong interaction between the hydrogen and I atoms as well as between the carboxyl group and the uncoordinated Pb 2+ , also contributing to defect passivation of the perovskite. Moreover, the effects of the M-QD passivation on the photoelectric properties of perovskite lms are investigated by photoluminescence (PL), time-resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) and UV-vis absorption studies. We found that, upon introduction of an appropriate concentration (0.3 mM) of M-QD solution for passivation, the perovskite lm becomes more uniform and compact, and the charge separation efficiency is enhanced signicantly. As a result, an impressive PCE (20.94%) of the PSC is achieved along with a high open circuit voltage (V oc ) of 1.171 V, and the unencapsulated device shows good long-term stability. 
 Results and discussion The M-QDs are synthesized using an antisolvent method at low temperature as shown in Fig.  1a , and the detailed preparation is given in the ESI † based on our recent article.  14  Fig.  1b  and c  show the typical TEM images of as-prepared M-QDs. The M-QDs are almost cubes with a uniform size of 7-9 nm (Fig.  1b ) and exhibit lattice fringes with a spacing of 0.238 nm (Fig.  1c ), matching well with the (211) plane of MAPbBr 3 and indicating a high crystallinity of the quantum dots, which is also veried from the XRD pattern (Fig.  1d ). The characteristic peaks at 2q angles of 15.0°, 21.2°, 30.2°and 33.8°correspond to the crystal planes (001), (110), (002) and (210) of MAPbBr 3 , respectively.  15, 16  Moreover, another favorable piece of evidence is obtained from the UV-vis spectrum (Fig.  1e ), showing an absorption edge at 540 nm with a band gap of 2.315 eV (the inset in Fig.  1e ). And the uorescence luminescence of the M-QD solution is very obvious while using an ultraviolet excitation light source (365 nm) as shown in Fig.  S1 . † The architecture of the fabricated Cs 0.05 (FA 0.85 MA 0.15 ) 0.95 -Pb(I 0.85 Br 0.15 ) 3 (abbreviated as CFM) based PSC is illustrated in Fig.  2a  (denoted as ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/M-QDs/Spiro-OMeTAD/Au). The process details are provided in the ESI. † The synthesized M-QDs are used for post-treatment of the perovskite layer in PSCs. In order to investigate the effect of M-QD passivation on the perovskite nanostructure change, the morphology and surface roughness of the CFM lms with M-QD treatment in different concentrations (0, 0.15, 0.3, 0.45 and 0.6 mM, respectively) were observed using the AFM technique as shown in Fig.  2b-f . It can be seen from the AFM images that the root mean square roughness (RMS) has been improved and reduced to approximately 25 nm with adding M-QDs from 28.9 nm without M-QDs, which veries that M-QDs can increase the uniformity and smoothness of the perovskite lms. In detail, when the M-QD concentration is less than 0.3 mM, the RMS decreases (from 28.9 to 23.1 nm) with the increase of the M-QD concentration. However, the RMS increases (from 23.1 to 26.2 nm) when the concentration exceeds 0.3 mM, indicating that the smoothest perovskite lm is achieved at the M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM. The change of surface morphology may be due to the shallow layer dissolution-recrystallization of the perovskite lm by a small amount of DMF in the M-QD solution,  17, 18  aiming to dissolve small grains and recrystallize them to large grains. However, excessive DMF will dissolve the shallow layer of the perovskite lm, leading to grain size redistribution aer the perovskite recrystallization. The SEM results can give a favorable conrmation. As shown in Fig.  3a-e , the average grain size increases with the increase of the M-QD concentration while it is less than 0.3 mM, and the grain size becomes more random, containing a large number of small grains, when the concentration is too high (>0.3 M). The insets in Fig.  3a-e  show the statistics of all complete grain sizes in the corresponding SEM images and Fig.  3f  displays the statistical results of the grain numbers and the average grain size at the same scale bar. It can be seen signicantly from Fig.  3f  that the lm shows the maximum average grain size (about 600 nm) and the least grain number (about 73) at the M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM (Fig.  3c ). In addition, there is almost no change in the thickness of the perovskite lms with (0.3 mM) and without M-QD treatment as shown in Fig.  S2 . † To further investigate the inuence of M-QDs on charge transfer and recombination, the surface potential (V s ) was characterized by KPFM. Fig.  4a  and b  show the V s threedimensional distribution and the line (red line in Fig.  4a ) proles of V s on the ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM lms with M-QD treatment in different concentrations, respectively. It can be observed that V s increases rst and then decreases with the increase of the M-QD concentration from 0 to 0.6 mM. The highest V s of ∼860 mV is achieved at the concentration of 0.3 mM, indicating that most holes accumulate on the surface and the corresponding electrons are extracted by the electron transfer layer (ETL) at the optimum concentration of 0.3 mM, which is benecial for an enhancement of V oc of PSCs.  [19] [20] [21] [22] [23]  In addition, due to the coating of oleylamine (OLA) and oleyl acid on M-QDs, the surface defects of the perovskite lm are collectively passivated by the strong interaction between the hydrogen atoms of oleyl amine ligands and I of CFM, forming hydrogen bonds (N-H/I), as well as between the carboxyl group of oleyl acid ligands and the uncoordinated Pb 2+ of CFM,  13, [24] [25] [26]  which is veried by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra in Fig.  S3 . † This conjecture can be also supported by the DFT calculations. As shown in Fig.  S4a , † there is a strong electrostatic interaction between OLA and CFM due to notable charge redistributions, indicating that the surface of the perovskite lm can be effectively passivated by OLA. Moreover, the passivation process does not bring in any impurity states in the forbidden band of CFM from the DOS calculations (Fig.  S4b † ). The defectpassivated CFM is advantageous to the reduction of non-radiative recombination of carriers and then to the enhancement of photovoltaic performance. However, the M-QDs have poor conductivity due to the insulating oleyl amine ligand on the surface of QDs. As shown in Fig.  4c , the current-voltage curve (I-V) results of the ITO/M-QDs/Au resistive devices indicate that the resistance of the M-QD lm increases with the increase of the M-QD concentration, which is harmful for the charge transfer. Therefore, excessive dosage of M-QDs is not conducive to the improvement of PSC performance. To conrm the structure of the QD treated perovskite lms, the XRD technique was employed. Fig.  5a  shows the XRD patterns of CFM lms with M-QD treatment in different concentrations. The main peaks of the perovskite lms are at the same diffraction angle, indicating that M-QD posttreatment does not change the crystal structure of CFM. On the other hand, the main peaks, such as (100), (200), show higher intensity at the M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM compared with other conditions, indicating a better crystallinity of the perovskite lm.  27  These conclusions can also be demonstrated from the UV-vis absorption spectrum. As shown in Fig.  5b , with the M-QD concentration increasing from 0 to 0.6 mM, the absorption edges are all at around 770 nm, corresponding to the band gap of 1.62 eV (the inset in Fig.  5b ), indicating the same crystal structure. The energy level alignment of SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/HTL is described in Fig.  S5 . † Nevertheless, the highest absorption intensity also occurs at the M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM, exhibiting the best crystallinity.    To further explore the inuence of M-QD concentrations on the carrier transfer kinetics, the PL spectra and TRPL decay transients of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM lms with M-QD treatment in different concentrations are measured. Fig.  5c  shows that the PL intensities are weakened with the introduction of M-QDs, and the lowest PL intensity is observed at the concentration of 0.3 mM, indicating the improved quality of CFM lms and effectively promoting the transfer and extraction of photogenerated electrons at the ETL/CFM interface. Fig.  5d  shows the TRPL decay curves. The detail tting data which are based on a biexponential decay function: I(t) = A 1 exp(-t/s 1 ) + A 2 exp(-t/ s 2 ) 28 are listed in Table  S1 . † It can be seen that the average carrier lifetimes (s avg ) of the M-QD treated perovskite lms are all shorter than that of the control one, and the shortest s avg (393.63 ns) occurs at the concentration of 0.3 mM, implying again a more efficient carrier transfer. Aer the above investigation, we have reasons to predict that the PSC performance can be improved by the M-QD post-processing of perovskite lms. The current density-voltage (J-V) curves of PSCs based on different M-QD concentrations under forward scans (FS) are shown in Fig.  6a . The corresponding performance parameters are listed in Table  1 , from which an increasing PCE and V oc can be found with the increase of M-QD concentration when it is less than 0.3 mM, being partially attributed to the better crystallinity (Fig.  5a ) and smoother lm of CFM (Fig.  2  and 3 ). In addition, the improvement of V oc can be also proved by KPFM (Fig.  4 ). However, when the concentration of M-QDs increases further (>0.3 mM), the performance parameters of PSCs do not further improve but decrease, which may be due to the dissolution of the CFM lm by excessive DMF, leading to a poor crystallinity of CFM (Fig.  5a ) and a hindered charge transfer at the CFM/HTL interface (Fig.  5c ). In a word, a highest PCE (∼21%) of PSCs was obtained at a M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM. The statistical distributions of the performance parameters for 20 devices with each concentration of M-QDs are displayed in Fig.  6b-e . Also, a highest average PCE (∼20.15%) of PSCs was observed at 0.3 mM thanks to the optimal average V oc (∼1.165 V), short-circuit current density (J sc ) (∼23.2 mA cm -2 ) and ll factor (FF) (∼0.74). To investigate the PSC hysteresis, J-V measurements under reverse scans are carried out, and the results are shown in Fig.  S6  and Table  S2 . † A similar change trend of performance parameters, which increase rst and then decrease with the increase of the concentration of M-QDs, was observed. The optimal efficiency (∼20.5%) also occurs along with the minimum PSC hysteresis (2.24%) when the concentration is 0.3 mM.  Furthermore, in order to investigate the stability of PSCs, PCEs of optimal (0.3 mM) and control (0 mM) PSCs as a function of time were recorded under three different environmental conditions, which are N 2 under continuous light soaking for 600 hours, N 2 at 85 °C heating for 2000 hours, and air at 25 °C along with 30% humidity for 2000 hours, respectively, and the results are shown in Fig.  7a . It can be seen that the long-term stability of the optimal PSC is much better than that of the control one under all three conditions. The water contact angle results, which are 51°(Fig.  7b ) for the control CFM lm and 75°( Fig.  7c ) for the optimal one, respectively, can give a reasonable explanation for the better stability of the optimal PSC in air.  [29] [30] [31]  Meanwhile, as shown in Fig.  S7 , † the water contact angles are 65°, 80°, and 80°for the M-QD concentrations of 0.15, 0.45, and 0.6 mM, respectively, which are all larger than that of the control one (51°). In addition, the better light soaking and thermal stability of the optimal PSC may be due to the good passivation effect of OLA for the dangling bonds of CFM, with no impurity states in the band gap (Fig.  S2  and S3 †). To further understand the reason why the performance of PSC is enhanced by M-QD treatment, the typical electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), Mott-Schottky (M-S) and dark J-V measurements (detail methods are shown in the ESI †) are employed for both optimal (0.3 mM) and control (0 M) cells, as shown in Fig.  S8a-c , † respectively. Table  S3  † shows the EIS tting results by using a reported equivalent circuit (inset in Fig.  S8a † ).  [32] [33] [34]  The M-QD (0.3 mM) treated cell shows a smaller R trans (177.0 U cm -2 ) and a larger R rec (1342.0 U cm -2 ) than those (302.2 U cm -2 and 827.9 U cm -2 ) of the control one, indicating faster charge transport and less charge recombination,  35  leading to a higher efficiency device. As seen from M-S plots (Fig.  S8b † ), the absolute values of the slope (5.29) and the built-in potential (V bi ) (1.08 V) of the M-QD treated cell are larger than those (4.66 and 1.05 V) of the control one, suggesting a lower interfacial carrier density and a more favorable hole extraction at the perovskite/HTL interface,  24, 36  thereby improving the V oc and FF. As shown in Fig.  S8c , † the M-QD treated device shows a lower leakage current density, implying that M-QDs could reduce the carrier recombination loss and enhance the charge transport in PSCs.  37  Furthermore, to investigate the defect state lling voltage (V TFL ), the space charge-limited current (SCLC) measurement of the hole-only devices (ITO/PTAA/Al 2 O 3 /CFM/M-QDs (0 or 0.3 mM)/spiro-OMeTAD/Au) was employed as shown in Fig.  S8d  and e . † The lower V TFL (0.143 V) and n trap (2.98 × 10 15 cm -3 ) along with the larger hole mobility (m h ) (1.95 × 10 -3 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) of the M-QD treated device indicate that M-QDs can effectively decrease the defect density and charge trapping and increase the hole mobility,  38, 39  reducing the carrier recombination loss and boosting hole transmission efficiency, thereby improving the performance of PSCs. 
 Conclusions In summary, we have reported a new passivation method that the CFM lms are treated with M-QD solution to enhance the photovoltaic performance in perovskite solar cells. Here the M-QD solution is synthesized using a simple antisolvent strategy at low temperature. In addition, we have systematically researched the passivation mechanism and effect at different concentrations of M-QDs in PSCs. When the concentration of M-QDs increases from 0 to 0.3 mM, the CFM lms become more and more at along with fewer defects, reducing the leakage current and carrier recombination, and thereby improving the device performance. However, for a larger concentration of more than 0.3 mM, the CFM lms are partially damaged due to the excessive DMF, and the internal resistances of PSCs increase due to the excessively insulated OLA ligand, leading to poor device performance. As a result, an optimized PCE of ∼21% along with a high V oc of 1.17 V is obtained at the M-QD concentration of 0.3 mM. Moreover, the optimized PSCs without encapsulation display excellent stability under three different environmental conditions of N 2 under continuous light soaking, N 2 at 85 °C heating, and air at 25 °C along with 30% humidity, respectively. These results demonstrated that post-treatment of perovskite lms with quantum dots is an effective way to improve the performance of PSCs.  Fig. 1 1 Fig. 1 (a) Schematic of the synthesis process, (b) TEM image (the inset shows the size statistical histograms), (c) lattice fringes, (d) XRD pattern, and (e) UV-vis spectrum of M-QDs (the inset image shows the corresponding band gap). 
 Fig. 2 2 Fig. 2 (a) Device structure diagram. Top view AEM images of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/M-QD films passivated with different concentrations of M-QDs (b) 0 mM, (c) 0.15 mM, (d) 0.3 mM, (e) 0.45 mM and (f) 0.6 mM, respectively. 
 Fig. 3 3 Fig. 3 Top view SEM images of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/M-QD films passivated with different concentrations of M-QDs (a) 0 mM, (b) 0.15 mM, (c) 0.3 mM, (d) 0.45 mM and (e) 0.6 mM (the insets are the corresponding grain size statistical histograms). (f) Number and average size of the grain statistical chart. 
 Fig. 4 4 Fig. 4 (a) Images of the potential distribution on the surface of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/M-QD films passivated with different concentrations of M-QDs. (b) Summarized image of surface potentials under different conditions. (c) I-V curves of the ITO/M-QDs/Au resistance devices. 
 Fig. 5 5 Fig. 5 (a) XRD, (b) UV-vis (the inset shows the corresponding band gap), (c) PL, and (d) TRPL of the ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/M-QD films. 
 Fig. 6 6 Fig. 6 (a) J-V curves of PSCs with different concentrations of M-QDs. (b) PCE, (c) FF, (d) J sc , and (e) V oc statistical diagrams of devices for each condition. 
 Fig. 7 7 Fig. 7 Long-term stability of un-encapsulated devices in a N 2 environment under continuous light soaking (a1), in a N 2 environment at a constant temperature of 85 °C (a2), and in air with a relative humidity of 30% (a3). The water contact angles of the perovskite films passivated with different concentrations of M-QDs (b) 0 mM and (c) 0.3 mM. 
 Table 1 1 Summary of performance parameters of PSCs with different concentrations of M-QDs V oc (V) J sc (mA cm -2 ) PCE (%) FF (%) 0 mM 1.151 22.38 18.83 73.09 0.15 mM 1.158 23.20 19.71 73.37 0.3 mM 1.171 23.27 20.94 76.85 0.45 mM 1.163 22.87 19.55 73.49 0.6 mM 1.141 22.42 18.55 72.51 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2023 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2023 Sustainable Energy Fuels, 2023, 7, 5057-5065 | 5059 
			 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2023 Sustainable Energy Fuels, 2023, 7, 5057-5065 | 5065
Paper #: 19722_2
Title: Passivation Mechanism of Perovskite Upper Interface based on MAPbBr 3 Quantum Dots for Efficient and Stable Perovskite Solar Cells Author(s), and Corresponding Author(s)*

Experimental section Materials: Formamidine iodide (FAI, 99.9%), methylammonium iodide (MAI, 99. 9%), methyl ammonium bromide (MABr, 99.9%), lead iodide (PbI 2 , 99.99%), and 2,2',7,7'-tetrakis (N, N dimethoxyphenylamino)-9,9'-spirobifluorene (spiro-OMeTAD, 98.6%) were both purchased from Advanced Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Tin oxide (SnO 2 , 15 wt% in H 2 O colloidal dispersion) was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Potassium fluoride (KF, 99.9%), potassium chloride (KCl, 99%), lead bromide (PbBr 2 , 99.9%), cesium iodide (CsI, 99.999%,), oleic acid (OA, 99.5%) and oleylamine (OLA, 99.5%) were purchased from Aladdin. Bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl) imide salt (Li-TFSI, 99.9%), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 99%), 4-tert-butylpyridine (tBP, 98%), and N,Ndiethylformamide (DMF, 99%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Gold (Au, 99.999%) were purchased from China New Metal Materials Technology Co. 
 M-QDs synthesis: Under stirring at room temperature, 24.5mg of MABr and 80.5 mg of PbBr 2 were added into 500 μL of DMF until dissolved completely. Then 20μL of oleylamine was added. After thorough mixing, a clear solution was obtained, denoting as Solution I. Meanwhile, 180 μL of oleic acid was added into 8 mL toluene solution under vigorous stirring for 30 min at room temperature to obtain solution II. During the continuous vigorous stirring of solution II, solution I was added, and the color of the mixed solution changed to yellow instantly. After being centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 20 min, the M-QDs solution of the green supernatant was obtained. Significantly, there is a trace amount of DMF including in the M-QDs solution, and the concentration of M-QDs in the green solution is quantified as about 9 mM. In detail, firstly, a clean dish was weighed. Secondly, 2 mL of the green supernatant was dropped onto the dish and dried naturally to obtain the M-QDs solids. Finally, the dish containing M-QDs solids was weighed again. The D-value between the two weighed results is the mass of the M-QDs, which is about 8.8 mg. Therefore, the concentration of M-QDs in the green supernatant was inferred to be about 9 mM. In addition, the required concentration of M-QDs in our experiments was obtained by diluting using toluene. Device fabrication: The ITO glasses were washed consecutively in detergent, deionized water, acetone, and isopropanol by sequential sonication, dried, and treated with ultraviolet ozone (UVO) for 15 min. The SnO 2 -KCl colloidal dispersion liquid, the KF aqueous solution, the perovskite precursor, the M-QDs solution, and the Spiro-OMeTAD solution were prepared according to our recent work.  1  On the clean ITO substrates, the SnO 2 -KCl liquid was spin coated at 5500 rpm for 10 s and then the films were heated at 150 °C for 10 min and UVO treated for 60 min to obtain an electron transport layer. The KF solution was spin coated at 3000 rpm for 10 s and annealed at 120 °C for 10 min. The perovskite precursor were then spin coated onto the substrates in a N 2 -filled glove box, consisting of a two-step program at 1000 and 4500 r.p.m. for 5 and 20 s, respectively. During the second step, 1 ml of ethyl ether was poured on the spinning substrate 5 s before the end of the program. Immediately, the substrates annealed at 120 °C for 10 min. After cooling down to room temperature, the M-QDs solution with different concentrations (0, 0.15, 0.3, 0.45 and 0.6 mM, respectively) was spin coated onto the samples at 5000 rpm for 30 s without any further heat treatment for passivation. After that, a spiro-OMeTAD solution was spin coated at 4500 rpm for 20 s to obtain a hole transport layer. Finally, the device with a structure of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/ CFM/xM-QDs (x = 0, 0.15, 0.3, 0.45 and 0.6 mM) /Spiro-OMeTAD/Au were completed by thermal evaporation of an Au counter electrode on an active area of 0.04 cm 2 by a shadow mask. 
 Characterization: The TEM images were characterized by JEOL JEM-F200 transmission electron microscope (Nippon Electronics Co., Japan). The SEM images were obtained using a JSM7001F field-emission scanning electron microscope (Japan Electron Optics Laboratory Co., Japan), and grain size was measured by the Nano Measure 1.2 software. AFM and KPFM measurements was performed on a Dimension Icon scanning probe microscopy (Bruker, USA). The XRD patterns was measured by a D8-ADVANCE X-ray diffractometer (Bruker, Germany). UV-vis absorption spectra were conducted by Carry 5000 ultraviolet/visible spectrophotometer (Agilent Technologies, China). The PL and TRPL spectra were carried out via a HORIBA Jobin Yvon Fluorolog-3 Spectrofluorometer system and a FLS 980 PL spectrometer (Edinburgh Instrument, England), respectively. The IR spectra were carried out via a VERTEX 70 fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (Bruker, Germany). J-V characteristics were measured using a Keithley 2410 source meter (Cleveland, OH, USA) at AM 1.5G illumination (1000 W/m 2 ) generated by a Newport 94043A solar simulator (USA) and calibrated using a certified silicon solar cell by NREL, including forward scans (FS, from -0.20 to 1.20 V) and reverse scans (RS, from 1.20 to -0.20 V). In addition, The long-term stability test is carried out by performing an J-V test at regular intervals on the samples which are placed in three different conditions for a long period of time. IPCE spectra were measured in air by the Qtest Station 500ADX quantum efficiency test system (United States Dawn Technology Co., Ltd., USA). The water contact angle was measured using LAUDA OSA100 fiber optical contact angle tensiometer (LAUDA Scientific GmbH, China). SCLC, M-S, and EIS measurements were carried out via a CHI660E electrochemical workstation (Chenhua Equipment Company, Shanghai, China). The EIS was simulated using Z-View software. Notably, the SEM, AFM, KPFM, XRD, UV-vis, PL, TRPL, FTIR and the water contact angle characterizations are carried out on the films with structure of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/xM-QDs, the J-V, dark J-V, M-S, and EIS measurements are based on the device of ITO/SnO 2 -KCl/KF/CFM/xM-QDs/Spiro-OMeTAD/Au, the SCLC measurement is based on a hole only device of ITO/PTAA/Al 2 O 3 /CFM/ xM-QDs/Spiro-OMeTAD/Au, and the electrical conductivity test is carried out between ITO and Au on the films of ITO/xM-QDs/Au. First-principles calculations: Electronic structure calculations are performed with the density functional theory as implemented in the Vienna ab initio simulation package, 2, 3 employing projected augmented wave potentials to describe the atomic core electrons and a plane wave basis set with a kinetic energy cutoff of 450 eV to expand the Kohn-Sham electronic states. For the exchange and correlation functional, the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) in the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) format was used.  4  The CFM/OLA interface was simulated by a periodic slab model. Firstly, a 3 × 1 CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 (001) surface unit cell with 6 atomic layers was constructed, and a vacuum thickness of 20 Å was added along the z direction. Then the OLA molecule was deposited on the CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 (001) surface. The Brillouin zone was sampled in (1 × 3 × 1) and (3 × 5 × 1) Monkhorst-Pack grids,  5  respectively, in the structure relaxations and density of states (DOS) calculations. The dispersion correction was also included by the DFT+D2 scheme.  6  To reduce computational cost and mimic the bulk influence, the bottom 4 atomic layers of CH 3 NH 3 PbI 3 were fixed during structural optimization, and other atomic layers and the OLA molecule were relaxed until the atomic forces are smaller than 0.05 eV Å-1.
