Paper #: 19013_1
Title: Surface passivation of red-emitting fluoride phosphors by aminocarboxyl complexants to achieve high water-resistance for light-emitting diodes
Mn 4+ -activated fluoride phosphors are promising luminescent materials for use in phosphor-converted whitelight-emitting diodes (wLEDs). However, poor water resistance in high humidity environment, one of critical drawbacks of this type of phosphors, has limited their practical applications. To address this issue, we developed a new facile strategy to passivate the surface of phosphors by in situ constructing a dual Mn 4+ -rare protective layer using well-known aminocarboxyl complexants with mild reducibility and strong complexation property. Ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) was taken as a representative for the research in detail, and a typical Mn 4+ -doped fluorosilicate phosphor K 2 SiF 6 :Mn 4+ (KSFM) was selected to demonstrate the reliability of the proposed strategy. The surface passivation was achieved by simply dispersing KSFM in a saturated EDTA aqueous solution (KSFM-sEDTA) or a hydrofluoric acid solution containing a certain amount of EDTA (KSFM-EDTA), and then stirring for a short time at room temperature. The analysis results indicate that the dual Mn 4+ -rare surface layer is composed of a K 2 SiF 6 matrix shell and an organic coating of residual EDTA and/or its related compounds, and the layer constructed by Method 2 is more significant than that by Method 1. Both the luminescence performance and the water resistance of the passivated KSFM were greatly enhanced while the luminescence characteristics remained unchanged. When the water-eroded KSFM was re-treated with EDTA, the luminescence was dramatically restored due to removal of the manganese hydrolysates and repair of the crystal surface defects. The wLEDs assembled with KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA phosphor exhibited intense white light with high luminous efficiency (LE, 170.61 lm/W and 162.51 lm/W), high color rendering index (CRI, 88.3 and 85.9), and low correlated color temperature (CCT, 3680 K and 3805 K), respectively. More importantly, the fabricated wLEDs retained high LE (90.6% and 88.6%) and no remarkable changes of CRI and CCT values after being aged at high temperature and humidity (85 • C, 85%) for 550 h, which are more superior to the wLED assembled with the pristine KSFM.
Introduction White light-emitting diodes (wLEDs), as substitutes for conventional light sources, e.g., incandescent and fluorescent lamps, have been rapidly used in various fields because of their high energy efficiency, durability, reliability, low energy consumption and environmental friendliness  [1, 2] . Currently, the light-emitting mode of the most widely used wLEDs is achieved by combination of a yellow-emitting phosphor Y 3 Al 5 O 12 :Ce 3+ (YAG:Ce 3+ ) and a blue-emitting InGaN LED chip. The YAG:Ce 3+ phosphor is excited by the electroluminescence of InGaN chip to emit yellow light, which mixes with the unabsorbed blue light of InGaN chip to produce white light. Unfortunately, such phosphor-converted wLEDs (pc-wLEDs) suffer from a lower color rendering index (CRI<80) and a higher correlated color temperature (CCT>5000K) due to the absence of red emission from YAG:Ce 3+ phosphor. A convenient way to solve this problem is to add red-emitting phosphors that can be excited by blue light chips to compensate for the lack of the red component in the emitting spectrum  [2, 3] . Therefore, searching for appropriate red-emitting phosphors or those containing a red component has attracted considerable attention. So far, several class of inorganic red phosphors, such as Eu 2+/3+ -doped sulfide and (oxy) nitride  [4] , and Mn 4+ -doped compounds  [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] , have been evaluated for use in pc-wLEDs. Among them, the Mn 4+ -activated red phosphors demonstrate excellent optical properties, including near ultraviolet (320-380 nm, 4 A 2g → 4 T 1g ) to blue (380-500 nm, 4 A 2g → 4 T 2g ) broad-band excitation, red and far-red (600-650 nm, 2 E g → 4 A 2g ) narrow-band emission within the spectral sensitivity of human eye, and high luminous efficiency  [23] . For these exceptional characteristics, this class of red phosphors, especially the fluoride type of ones, such as A 2 MF 6 :Mn 4+ (A = K, Na, Sc, NH  4  , Cs and M = Si, Ge, Ti, Sn, Zr), KNaMF 6 :Mn 4+ , BaMF 6 :Mn 4+ (M = Si, Ti, Ge, Sn), and ZnMF 6 ⋅H 2 O (M = Si, Ge), has been developed  [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] . In the molecules of these fluoride phosphors, Mn 4+ ion (3 d 3 electronic configuration) combines with F -ion forming [MnF 6 ] 2-complexes as luminescence centers which can be effectively excited by the light with a maximum wavelength of approximately 450 nm and have minimal absorption above 500 nm  [23, 28] . Hence, the fluoride phosphors have emerged as more promising candidates for fabricating such pc-wLED devices, in case of a good chemical stability. K 2 SiF 6 :Mn 4+ (KSFM) is amongst them the most popular representative that has already been commercialized but still frequently studied in recent years  [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [16] [17] [18] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] 28, [30] [31] [32] [33] [35] [36] [37] [38] . Nevertheless, most of the existing Mn 4+ -activated fluoride phosphors suffer from poor inherent moisture resistance, which poses a challenge to their long-lasting outdoor applications  [7, 11, 25, 27, 28] . Under humid conditions, the light-emitting [MnF 6 ] 2-groups exposed on the surface/near-surface of the phosphors are liable to hydrolysis, producing mixed valence manganese hydroxides and oxides  [37] . These hydrolysates adhere to the surface of phosphor particles and not only do not emit light, but also can strongly absorb the excitation luminescence in the range of 400-620 nm, leading to a severe emission decay or even quenching of the phosphors over time  [15, 27, 28] . This hydrolysis process gets accelerated when the phosphors are exposed to high brightness LEDs and high temperatures (~200 • C)  [39] . Taken the Mn 4+ -doped K 2 SiF 6 matrix as an example, the surface layer of the phosphors firstly undergoes dissociation in the presence of water, generating [MnF 6 ] 2- groups (reaction 1), which then gets hydrolyzed into Mn-hydroxides and finally converted to Mn-oxides possibly via the reactions (2) and  (3)    [17, 27, 37, 39] .  Mn(OH) 4 (s) → MnO 2 (s) + 2H 2 O (l) (3) The water produced along with the generation of MnO 2 is likely to lead to a vicious cycle of the phosphors. Obviously, the key to improving the waterproof stability of this class of phosphors is to prevent the [MnF 6 ] 2-groups on the particle surface/ near-surface from being hydrolyzed. To date, researchers have attempted many methods to achieve this goal, including organic or/and inorganic coating  [7, 15, 19, 29, 31, 40, 41] , surface passivation (deactivation or removal of surface Mn 4+ )  [17, 22, 32, 33, 35, [37] [38] [39] [42] [43] [44] , preparation of single crystal phosphors  [21] , and others  [45] . Among the above strategies, the surface coating using either organics or/and inorganic matters to construct shell layers to protect the surface of materials is a traditional strategy resisting adverse environmental factors. It is based on the idea of isolating the environmentally-sensitive groups on the material surface from exposure to the environment. Over recent years, this strategy has been most frequently used to improve the water resistance of the Mn 4+ -doped fluoride phosphors. However, the coating usually has varying degrees of negative impact on the luminous efficacy of the phosphors due to the shell thickness, optical transparency, uniformity and conformality, etc.  [19, 22] . For organic coating, a uniform hydrophobic cover with precisely controlled thickness is relatively easy to achieve  [7, 15] . But, the complexity of the coating process, the adhesion to the phosphor particles, and the instability of the layer under certain conditions such as high temperature, UV light or contact with organic solvents, are the problems that need to be critically evaluated. For inorganic coating, metal fluorides (CaF 2 , SrF 2 , etc.) and oxides (SiO 2 , TiO 2 , Al 2 O 3 , etc.) were mostly used as encapsulation materials, which are more stable and have stronger adhesion at high temperatures  [29, 40] . However, the inorganic coating, especially the slightly soluble inorganic salt coating, does not guarantee a hydrophobic shell like an organic coating does, thus, the closure of the shell is critical for the improvement of waterproofness of the phosphors. In most cases, it is difficult to finely control the uniformity and conformality of the inorganic layers  [29] . Furthermore, such heterogeneous coating layers are likely to suffer from delamination and blistering due to incompatible chemistry between the phosphor core and the coating shell. If the protective layer is punched or peeled off, the [MnF 6 ] 2-groups on the surface the phosphors would undergo hydrolysis in any case. More notably, the heterogeneous layers may partly absorb or scatter the incoming and outgoing radiation due to the difference in the refractive index and the lattice constant between the inner phosphor and the outer shell, reducing the luminescence efficiency of the phosphors. Given these shortcomings, the strategy to build a homogeneous shell layer using different methods, such as epitaxial growth and reverse cation exchange, has shown advantages  [17] [18] [19] 31] . Different from the heterogeneous coating, the homogeneous layers formed have absolutely the same physicochemical properties as the inner phosphor, and thus it can not only cut down the probability of non-radiative decay at the surface, but also cut off the energy migration path to surface defects  [19, 25] . For all that, the same drawback lies in the optical transparency of the outer shell layers, which is crucial for the transmission of incoming and outgoing radiation. Besides, the preparation process of most of such homogeneous layers is complicated and time-consuming. What particularly catches our attention is the surface passivation (or deactivation) treatment. This strategy employs organic or inorganic reducing agents with varying reducing powers, such as H 2 O 2 , Na 2 S 2 O 4 , Na 2 SO 3 , H 2 C 2 O 4 , DL-mandelic acid, and pyruvic acid, etc. to reduce the Mn 4+ ions in [MnF 6 ] 2-groups on the surface of phosphors, constructing a Mn 4+ -rare or Mn 4+ -free shell layer which not only almost eliminates the hydrolysis of the surface [MnF 6 ] 2-groups, but also shields the internal [MnF 6 ] 2-groups from further hydrolysis  [22, 32, 33, 35, [37] [38] [39] [42] [43] [44] . The strategy is similar to the homogeneous coating, but does not involve the fabrication of additional layers. By this means, a thin matrix passivation layer is generated, which counteracts the attenuation of excitation and emission light caused by the rebuilt shell layers, thereby minimizing the reduction in luminescence efficiency of the phosphors. Most recently, Huang et al.  [41]  found that the treatment of K 2 TiF 6 : Mn 4+ phosphor with EDTA can remove its surface Mn 4+ , forming a dilute Mn 4+ shell layer, which significantly improved the luminescence and water resistance of the phosphor. The approach of this study is highly similar to our previous researches  [46] . As a continuation of our work, herein, we propose a facile surface passivation strategy to improve the water resistance of the Mn 4+ -activated fluoride red phosphors through reconstruction of a Mn 4+ -rare surface layer using the well-known aminocarboxyl complexants including ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), disodium ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA•2Na), hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (HEDTA), ethylene glycol bis-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), and iminodiacetic acid (IDA). The passivation treatment utilizes the mild reducibility and strong coordination property of the complexing agents to reduce the Mn 4+ ions on the phosphor surface, followed by complexing the reduced products to form water-soluble manganese chelates. EDTA was taken as a representative for the study in detail and KSFM was used to demonstrate the reliability of the proposed strategy in improving the water resistance of the fluoride phosphors. The passivation was conducted by simply adding the synthesized KSFM to a saturated solution of a F.  Su et al.  complexone (Method 1) or a hydrofluoric acid solution containing a certain amount of a complexone (Method 2), and then stirring for a short time at room temperature. The analysis results indicated that a dual Mn 4+ -rare surface protective layer composed of a K 2 SiF 6 matrix shell and an organic layer of residual EDTA and/or its related compounds was constructed in situ on the surface of KSFM (Scheme 1). The extreme water-resistant experiments clearly demonstrated that the waterproof performance of the passivated KSFM was greatly enhanced. Interestingly, the surface microstructure of the KSFM samples eroded by water can be repaired to varying degrees and their luminescence can be significantly restored after being simply treated with EDTA by the same methods as the passivation. Lastly, the performance of pc-wLEDs composed of the as-passivated KSFM phosphors and YAG:Ce 3+ yellow phosphor were evaluated. 
 Experimental 
 Chemicals and physical measurements Silicon dioxide (SiO 2 , 99.9 wt%), potassium permanganate (KMnO 4 , 99.5 wt%), hydrogen peroxide aqueous solution (H 2 O 2 , 30 wt%), hydrofluoric acid aqueous solution (HF, 40 wt%) and ethanol (99.5 wt%) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA, 99.5 wt%), disodium ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA•2Na, 99.5 wt%), hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (HEDTA, 99.5 wt%), iminodiacetic acid (IDA, 98 wt%), and ethylene glycol bis-tetraacetic acid (EGTA, 99 wt%) were purchased from Aladdin Reagent. All chemicals were of analytical grade without further purification. The crystalline phase identification of the KSFM samples was examined by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) analysis on X ' Pert 3 Powder (PANalytical Co., Netherlands) with monochromatic Cu Kα radiation, at a scanning rate of 6.7 • /min in the range of 10 • < 2θ < 90 • at room temperature. Morphological analysis was performed using a Nova NanoSEM 450 field emission scanning electron microscope (FEI, USA) at an acceleration voltage of 10 or 15 kV. The surface elements distribution of the phosphors was recorded on an AZtec X-Max N 80 X-ray energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS, Oxford Instruments, UK). Surface composition analyses were performed on ESCALAB 250Xi X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Thermo, USA). The Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra were recorded on NEXUS670 spectrometer (Thermo, USA) using KBr pellets in the range of 4000-400 cm -1 with a resolution of 4 cm -1 . The photoluminescence excitation (PLE) and photoluminescence (PL) spectra at room temperature were measured on FP-6500 spectrophotometer (JASCO, Japan) equipped with a 150-W Xe lamp as a steady-state excitation source. The temperature-dependent fluorescence was recorded on F-7000 spectrophotometer (Hitachi, Japan). The luminescence decay curves and quantum yield were recorded on a Endingburg FLS980 fluorescence spectrophotometer (Britain) equipped a Xe lamp in natural environment under 450 nm excitation and monitoring at 630 nm emission. A RW3-2025P thermostat device (JEIOTECH, China) was used to control the working temperature of the spectrophotometers. The thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was performed on STA 449C synchronous thermal analyzer (NETZSCH, Germany) with a heating rate of 10 • C/min over a pure nitrogen (99.999%) atmosphere with a flow rate of 30 mL/min. The electroluminescence spectra and photoelectric characteristics of wLEDs were evaluated using a HP9000 LED spectral analyzer equipped with an integrating sphere system (Shenzhen Hongpu Instrument Technology Co., Ltd.). 
 Preparation of phosphor samples 2.2.1. Synthesis of KSFM phosphors The KSFM phosphor samples investigated in this study were synthesized referring to the previously reported one-step redox coprecipitation method  [8, 24, 36]  with some modifications. Typically, under vigorous stirring, 0.30 g (5 mmol) of SiO 2 powder was added in portions to a polypropylene plastic beaker containing 30 mL of HF solution in an ice bath to prepare H 2 SiF 6 solution. Then, 1.80 g (11.39 mmol) of KMnO 4 was dissolved in 10 mL of HF solution to prepare a KMnO 4 -HF solution. After SiO 2 powder was completely dissolved, the KMnO 4 -HF solution was dropped into the H 2 SiF 6 solution under vigorous stirring. Subsequently, H 2 O 2 aqueous solution was added dropwise to the mixed solution in the ice bath until the solution color just changed from purplish red to light brown. The yellowish KSFM precipitates formed in the solution were isolated instantly by centrifugation, followed by thoroughly rinsing once with 3 mL of HF aqueous Scheme 1. Reconstruction of a dual Mn 4+ -rare shell layer on the surface of Mn 4+ -doped fluoride phosphors using complexones. F.  Su et al.  solution and 5 mL of ethanol, respectively, and finally dried in an oven at 80 • C for 2 h. 
 Surface passivation of KSFM phosphors Two convenient methods were employed to passivate the prepared KSFM samples using aminocarboxyl complexing agents including EDTA, EDTA•2Na, HEDTA, EGTA and IDA. Method 1: A certain amount of a complexone was added to 50 mL of water under vigorous stirring at room temperature to prepare a saturated aqueous solution. 0.60 g KSFM was dispersed thoroughly and immersed fully in 20 mL of the saturated solution, and stirred continuously for 20 min. The resultant powders were collected by centrifugation, rinsed twice with ethanol, and then dried at 80 • C for 2 h, affording the passivated phosphors named as KSFM-sEDTA, KSFM-sEDTA•2Na, KSFM-sHEDTA, KSFM-sEGTA and KSFM-sIDA, respectively. Method 2: Firstly, 0.263 g (0.9 mmol) EDTA, 0.2353 g (0.7 mmol) EDTA•2Na, 0.2504 g (0.9 mmol) HEDTA, 0.2662 g (0.7 mmol) EGTA, and 0.1863 g (1.4 mmol) IDA were respectively added to a polypropylene plastic beaker containing 20 mL of HF solution and stirred for 15 min at room temperature, then, 0.60 g KSFM was added, and further stirred vigorously for 20 min. Thereafter, the resultant powders were respectively collected by centrifugation, followed by rinsing twice with ethanol, and dried at 80 • C for 2 h, obtaining the passivated KSFM samples named as KSFM-EDTA, KSFM-EDTA•2Na, KSFM-HEDTA, KSFM-EGTA and KSFM-IDA. 
 Fabrication of wLED devices and measurement of electroluminescence performance The wLEDs were fabricated by thoroughly mixing the passivated KSFM phosphors and commercial yellow-emitting YAG:Ce 3+ phosphor in a mass ratio of 1:1, and adequately dispersing in ZWL8820 organic silicone (1:1 mass ratio to phosphor mixture). Then, the mixture was coated onto the surface of a blue-light InGaN chip (~450 nm, 1 w, San'an Optoelectronics Co., Ltd.). The photoelectric properties of the asprepared wLEDs were measured at 2.6 V and different driving current at room temperature. The spectral intensity distribution of the devices was used to calculate their CCT and CRI. The luminous efficiency was determined by calculating the ratio of the measured luminous flux output and the input electrical power of the wLEDs. The long-term photostability of the wLEDs was examined through aging the wLEDs in a high temperature (HT, 85 • C) and high humidity (HH, 85%) environment for 550 h. The electroluminescence performance were measured every 50 h under a drive current of 10 mA. 
 Results and discussion 
 Synthesis of KSFM The synthesis of the Mn 4+ -activated fluoride phosphors remains a great challenge, as manganese features multiple valence states (most common ones being 0, 2+, 3+, 4+ and 7+) and its valence is sensitive to conditions and environment. Therefore, the main difficulty in synthesizing this class of phosphors with desirable luminescence characteristics lies in controlling the valence state of manganese in the reaction process  [5, 26] . In this study, we referred to the reported one-step co-precipitation method  [8, 24, 36]  to synthesize KSFM phosphors through redox reactions in HF solution at ca. 0 • C, in which SiO 2 serves as a source of Si, KMnO 4 as a source of Mn and K, and H 2 O 2 as a reductant. Unlike most literature reports, an ice bath was used to maintain the temperature at about 0 • C and the reaction solutions were kept in a continuously stirring state throughout our entire synthesis process. Firstly, during the etching of SiO 2 powder by HF acid to give rise to a transparent colorless H 2 SiF 6 solution, the lower temperature and continuous stirring can effectively assimilate the released heat, which can prevent SiF 4 from escaping, and thereby ensure the yield of H 2 SiF 6 . The following addition of H 2 O 2 aqueous solution to the mixture of H 2 SiF 6 and KMnO 4 in a HF solution leads to the reduction of Mn 7+ in KMnO 4 to Mn 4+ , in-situ forming K 2 MnF 6 possibly via equation (  4 )  [20] . 2 MnO 4 -+ 10H + + 12 F -+ 3H 2 O 2 → 2 MnF 6 2-+ 3 O 2 ↑ + 8H 2 O (4) The generated K 2 MnF 6 undergoes an ion exchange with Si 4+ of the co-existing H 2 SiF 6 in the HF solution under continuous stirring, affording the target KSFM precipitates, likely following the reaction 5. 2 K + + x MnF 6 2-+ (1-x) SiF 6 2-→ K 2 Si 1-x F 6 : xMn 4+ (5) In the step of reaction 4, the addition rate of H 2 O 2 solution and the reaction temperature are crucial for maintaining the stability of Mn 4+ valence  [27] . The slower addition of the reductant and the lower reaction temperature were shown to be beneficial for excluding excessive reduction of Mn 4+ ion, also for controlling the formation rate of O which may be harmful to the stability of Mn 4+ valence. Also, such synthesis conditions were shown to be favorable to the stability of the in-situ generated K 2 MnF 6 , and to facilitate the growth of regular KSFM crystals owing to a slower substitution of Mn 4+ for Si 4+ . Furthermore, the amount of H 2 O 2 solution used is also vital for the stability of Mn 4+ valence. In the operations, it is more appropriate to stop adding H 2 O 2 at the right moment when the solution evolved into a light brown color. Meanwhile, the acidic HF environment was shown to be capable of preventing parasitic hydrolysis reactions of Mn 4+ , and the sufficient F - anions in the solution can promote the complexation of the newly generated Mn 4+ with F -, thereby repressing excessive reduction to Mn valences lower than 4+. Xu et al.  [26]  once argued that the co-existing H 2 SiF 6 can spontaneously react with Mn 4+ and K + ions in K 2 MnF 6 , and then form KSFM product. However, we tend to deem that an ion exchange reaction seems more likely to occur, since the substitution of SiF 6 2-in the lattice of K 2 SiF 6 host by MnF 6 2-may be a prerequisite for the crystallization of KSFM  [5, 6] . The overall chemical reaction for the synthesis of KSFM in HF aqueous solution by this redox precipitation method may be described as equation  (6)    [24] . 2(1-x) SiO 2 + 4 KMnO 4 + 4(5-x) HF + 2(1-x) H 2 O 2 → 2 K 2 Si 1-x F 6 :xMn 4+ + (2-x) MnF 2 + 2(7-2x) H 2 O + (7-2x) O 2 ↑ (6) Throughout the reaction process, the generation of MnF 6 2-and the exchange of Mn 4+ with Si 4+ may occur almost concurrently, followed by the formation of KSFM through crystallization. In the literature, the names for this one-step precipitation method are diverse and confusing. Therefore, we consider that naming this synthesis method as redox cation-exchange crystallization (or precipitation) method seems more reasonable. In comparison with the one-step method without using H 2 O 2 , this redox cation-exchange crystallization reaction proceeds quickly and thus greatly diminishes the possibility of MnO 2 generation  [33] . In addition, compared with the two-step co-precipitation method in which K 2 MnF 6 precursor offering Mn 4+ for the subsequent ion exchange with Si 4+ in H 2 SiF 6 is separately prepared  [27] , K 2 MnF 6 in this one-step method was generated in situ and consumed instantly in the ion exchange with Si 4+ in H 2 SiF 6 . Thus, such method minimizes the possibility of forming other valence species of manganese due to the avoidance of further reduction and hydrolysis of K 2 MnF 6 in air or in KF/HF solution at elevated temperatures  [27] . Besides Mn compounds containing valence states lower than 4+, researchers found that various impurities such as KHF 2 are inevitably present in the products, resulting in poor stability, parasitic optical absorption, and lower luminescence efficiency of the phosphors  [27, 28] . During the synthesis of KSFM in this study, a lower molar ratio of KMnF 4 /SiO 2 was controlled, and no additional KF was introduced. Moreover, the resultant KSFM powders were carefully washed with HF aqueous solution and then ethanol before drying. These means were shown to be effective to minimize the formation and adverse impact of KHF 2 . 
 Phase purity, surface morphology and chemical composition The X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns of the KSFM samples are presented in Fig.  1  (Samples passivated with other compexants are shown in Fig.  S1 ), and the lattice parameters of the samples are collected in Table  1 . It can be seen that the position and relative intensity of all diffraction peaks of the samples match those of cubic K 2 SiF 6 (PDF#75-0694), and no diffraction peak from impurities was observed, indicating that the tested samples are of pure K 2 SiF 6 phase  [26] . The results also show that there is no significant change in the crystal structure and phase purity of the KSFM samples after treatment by the complexing agents. The peaks are very sharp, implying a high crystallinity of all samples. The cell dimensions of all KSFM samples are slightly larger than that of K 2 SiF 6 , while the dimensions of the treated KSFM are slightly smaller than that of the original KSFM. As known that, in the formation of KSFM, the Mn 4+ ions can partially occupy the octahedral core sites of Si 4+ in the host lattices of K 2 SiF 6 since the same valence state, identical coordination number and similar ionic radius between them (Mn 4+ , 0.53 Å, CN = 6 vs. Si 4+ , 0.40 Å, CN = 6). But after all, the radius of Mn 4+ is slightly larger than that of Si 4+ , resulting in a slightly enlarged cell dimension of KSFM. On the other hand, the treated KSFM samples show slight shrinkage in cell size, which suggests that a thin layer has been peeled off from the particle surface of the KSFM samples, likely due to the successful removal of the surface Mn 4+ ions by the complexing agents. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements were performed to analyze the surface morphologies and chemical compositions of the KSFM samples, which are presented in Fig.  2  and Fig.  S2 . As shown in Fig.  2(a-c ), the particles of both the pristine KFSM and the passivated KFSM samples, KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA, exhibit good crystallinity but nearly irregular blocks with sizes ranging from 15 to 25 μm. Almost no significant difference in average particle size is observed between the KSFM samples before and after EDTA passivation. Many tiny spherical particles are found to adhere to the crystal surface of the pristine KSFM. After passivation with EDTA by either of the two methods described above, the particles were significantly removed, affording well-shaped crystals with smoother planes and clearer edges, which is contrary to the counterparts treated using some other reducing agents  [35, 38] . The difference in the surface morphology of KSFM particles treated by the two methods is hardly observed, only KSFM-sEDTA obtained by Method 2 appears more regular in shape with fewer small particles. Fig.  2(b-d  and f ) illustrate the corresponding EDS spectra of the samples. It is observed that in the pristine KSFM, in addition to K, Si, and F, obvious signals of Mn element were detected. However, only a very faint Mn signal at about 0.52 KeV is vaguely seen on KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-EDTA, respectively. It could be inferred from these results that, after passivation with EDTA, the Mn 4+ ions on the surface of KSFM particles were effectively removed, leaving an almost naked K 2 SiF 6 host shell. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) technique was employed to further gain insight into the distribution of Mn 4+ on the surface of the KSFM samples (Fig.  3 ). As shown in Fig.  3 (a), clear signals corresponding to F 1s, K 2s, K 2p Si 2s, and Si 2p, and very weak but distinguishable signals ascribed to C 1s (ca. 284.7 eV) and O 1s were detected on the surface of all samples. The peaks of F 1s (dashed line) in the treated samples KSFM-EDTA and SFM-sEDTA slightly shift to a higher binding energy in comparison with that in the original KSFM. As well known, the binding energy of an element is very sensitive to its chemical state and local environment  [15, 37] . This observation first indicates that the chemical environment on the surface of KSFM phosphor has changed after EDTA treatment. A more significant difference was found between the KSFM samples before and after EDTA treatment, where a photoelectron signal of Mn 2p is detected on the surface of the pristine KSFM, while it is almost absent on KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA (Samples passivated with other complexants were shown in Fig.  S3 ). This result again suggests that the Mn 4+ ions on the surface of KSFM were almost removed by virtue of EDTA treatment, in situ forming a hard shell layer of Mn 4+ -rare K 2 SiF 6 host, which corroborates the inference drawn from the EDS analyses. The XPS signal of Mn 2p can be deconvoluted into two peaks centred at 642.7 and 655.2 eV (Fig.  3(b) ), which are ascribed to Mn 4+ 2p 3/2 and Mn 4+ 2p 1/2 , respectively  [39, 40] . The low-energy one can be fitted into at least two peaks (Fig.  3(c )), in which the presence of Mn 2+ could be deduced. Mn 2+ may come from the H 2 O 2 over-reduction or the self-redox reaction (4KMnO 4 + 12HF → 4MnF 2 + 5O 2 + 6H 2 O + 4 KF) of KMnO 4 in hydrofluoric acid solution  [41] . A very weak signal of this peak was observed on KSFM-sEDTA (Dashed box in Fig.  3(b) ), indicating the presence of trace amounts of Mn 4+ on its surface. The signal of Mn 3+ was not identified in the XPS spectra, and thus its existence could not be concluded. The magnified C 1s signals shown in Fig.  3(d ) indicate that the intensities of C 1s on the surface of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are markedly higher than that on the un-passivated KSFM. Based on a previous study  [47] , the C 1s signal detected on the surface of KSFM probably originated from the adventitious carbon adsorbed due to air exposure of the fresh surface prior to XPS measurement. Therefore, the carbon element detected on KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA may mainly come from the trace residual EDTA and/or its related compounds left, in addition to trace adventitious carbon adsorbed. Moreover, it is observed that the intensity of C 1s on the surface of KSFM-EDTA is much higher than that on KSFM-sEDTA, which is suggestive of a relatively higher atomic percentage of carbon on KSFM-EDTA, corresponding to a higher amount of residual EDTA and/or its related compounds left on its surface. In addition, Fig.  3(d ) displays that the C 1s signal of KSFM-EDTA is composed of a primary peak centred at ca. 284.7 eV and a shoulder peak at ca. 288.2 eV, while the counterpart of KSFM-sEDTA consists of two weaker peaks at ca. 284.7 eV and 287.8 eV with almost equal intensity. The former may originate from C-C and the latter from C --O groups. Therefore, it could be inferred that the C-containing matters adsorbed on KSFM-EDTA surface are dominantly alkane-containing compounds  probably produced from the decarboxylation of EDTA  [48] , while those adsorbed on KSFM-sEDTA are the residual EDTA and/or its manganese complexes. To verify the adsorption of EDTA and/or its related compounds on the newly-formed Mn 4+ -rare surface of KSFM, FT-IR and thermogravimetric analyses were performed, which are shown in Fig.  4 . From the FT-IR spectra (Fig.  4 (a)), it can be seen that all samples exhibit typical absorption bands at 484.05 cm -1 and 744.40 cm -1 , which correspond to the bending and asymmetric stretching vibrations of Si-F bonds in [SiF 6 ] 2-anion  [35, 40] . The weak broad band in 3600 -3250 cm -1 domain with the maximum at 3500 cm -1 is attributed to the stretching vibrations of O-H bond  [20] , which was also found on all KSFM samples. A medium absorption at 3021.96 cm -1 , and two slightly stronger bands centred at 1683.58 and 1409.73 cm -1 are respectively attributed to the stretching vibrations of C-H, C --O and C-O bonds of EDTA molecules, which appears on KSFM-EDTA while are hardly observed on KSFM and KSFM-sEDTA. This result suggests the presence of EDTA and/or its related compounds including oxidized products of EDTA and Mn 2+ -EDTA complexes on the surface of KSFM-EDTA. The amount of the residual EDTA molecules and related matters adsorbed on the surface of KSFM-sEDTA may be too low, and thereby was hardly detected by FTIR.  Taken these results together, it can be concluded that the convenient passivation using EDTA almost removed the Mn 4+ ions on the surface of KSFM phosphor, successfully constructing a Mn 4+ -rare K 2 SiF 6 shell. When treated by Method 2, the residual EDTA and/or its related compounds further adsorbed on the Mn 4+ -rare shell, forming a second   organic layer, which may provide additional protection for the inner [MnF 6 ] 2-groups against moisture. 
 Luminescent properties of the passivated KSFM The PLE and PL spectra of KSFM samples under room temperature before and after passivation with the complexones by the two methods are presented in Fig.  5  and Fig.  S4 . As shown in Fig.  5 (a), when monitored at 630 nm, two broad excitation bands located in the range from 320 nm to 390 nm and 390 nm-500 nm are observed, which are ascribed to the 4 A 2g → 4 T 1g and/or 4 A 2g → 4 T 2g electronic transitions of Mn 4+ in [MnF 6 ] 2-of the phosphors, respectively  [23] . No unexpected excitation bands are found in the PLE spectra of the phosphors. Under excitation of 450 nm light, the PL spectra of the samples show the characteristic peaks between 580 and 660 nm, which are assigned to 2 A g → 4 T 2g electronic/vibronic transitions with energies determined by the local coordination of Mn 4+ ions, as well as other emission peaks (Stokes v i and anti-Stokes v i ' transition)  [11, 16] . The PLE and PL spectra of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are almost identical to that of the original KSFM except for their intensities, indicating that the EDTA passivation did not change the characteristics of KSFM. The PL intensities of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are 1.61 and 1.53 times higher than that of KSFM, respectively. Such substantial emission enhancement may be attributed to the decreased non-radiative transitions of the excited Mn 4+ in the passivated KSFM owing to the formation of the Mn 4+ -rare protective layer and the reduction of surface defects  [22, 39, 41, 43] . Considering the operating temperature of LED chips has a significant impact on their luminescence and color gamut, the thermal stability of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA as well as the un-passivated KSFM was further examined. The correlation between temperature and PL intensity is depicted in Fig.  6(a-c ), and the integrated PL intensity of the samples at different temperatures is shown in Fig.  6(d) . Evidently, the temperature significantly influences the luminescence intensities of KSFM-sEDTA, KSFM-EDTA and the un-passivated KSFM. As the temperature rises from 30 • C to 180 • C, the characteristic wavelength of each peak of the samples remains unchanged, but the emission intensities all gradually increase until 150 • C, exhibiting a negative-thermal quenching (NTQ) effect. The NTQ effect of the pristine KSFM is very similar to the result reported by Adachi  [49] . When the temperature is lower than about 127 • C, the integrated PL intensities of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are consistently higher than that of KSFM (Fig.  6(d) ). As for KSFM-EDTA, it is seen that its PL intensity is still slightly higher than that of KSFM at nearly 145 • C. When the temperature exceeds 150 • C, the integrated PL intensities of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA gradually decrease, and that of KSFM also tends to slow down, probably due to thermally induced lattice relaxation and non-radiative transitions  [50] . In the existing reports, the luminescence thermal stability of most Mn 4+ -activated fluoride phosphors is poor because an obvious thermal quenching phenomenon occurs when the temperature is higher than about 125 • C  [31] . The temperature-dependent PL results indicate that the surface passivation using EDTA can significantly enhance the thermal stability of KSFM below 150 • C, which basically meets the operating temperature requirement of the majority of pc-wLEDs. Furthermore, the luminescence lifetime decay curves and quantum efficiency of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA phosphors as examples were measured to demonstrate the influence of complexone-passivation on the optical properties of KSFM. It can be seen from Fig.  7 (a) that the decay curves of the samples monitored at 630 nm all conform to a single exponential decay trend. The average calculated decay lifetimes of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are 8.74 ms and 8.40 ms, but that of KSFM is 8.22 ms at the same temperature. The results again suggest that the EDTA-passivation suppressed the non-radiative migration probability of Mn 4+ in KSFM, thereby resulting in a longer luminescence lifetime of KSFM phosphor  [25] . The effect of EDTA-passivation on the luminescence efficiency of KSFM was characterized, and the values of absorption efficiency (AE), inner quantum yield (IQE) and outer quantum yield (EQE) were calculated according to the formulas described in literature  [51] . Fig.  S5  presents the experimental results of KSFM-sEDTA, KSFM-EDTA and the pristine KSFM under 450 nm excitation, and Fig.  7 (b) compares the measured values. IQE and EQE values of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA were determined to be 82.84% and 34.92%, and 81.3% and 33.9%, respectively, compared with KSFM of 76.23% and 24.82%. Obviously, the quantum yield of KSFM phosphor was increased after EDTA passivation through the two methods described above, which confirms the inference that the non-radiative transition, mainly in the form of energy transfer, was reduced, and the radiative transition was enhanced. In comparison with the quantum yields of some previously reported KSFM passivated with other reagents or by other methods (Table  S1  in supporting materials), it can be validated that the EDTA-passivated KSFM phosphors is an efficient luminescent material that deserves in-depth research. 
 Water resistance performance of the passivated KSFM To verify whether the surface passivation treatment using the complexones could enhance the water resistance performance of KSFM phosphor exposed to humid environments, extreme water erosion experiments were conducted. Firstly, the water resistance of the EDTApassivated KSFM samples was comparatively evaluated by fully dispersing and continuously soaking them in deionized water for different duration at room temperature. As shown in Fig.  8 , KSFM-EDTA is almost resistant to long-term water attack. After soaking in water for 336 h (14 days), the integrated PL intensity of KSFM-EDTA maintains Fig.  5 . PLE and PL spectra of KSFM, KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA at room temperature. F.  Su et al.  94.1% of its initial value (Fig.  8(c) ). The luminescence of KSFM-sEDTA declines rapidly within 72 h, but thereafter remains almost unchanged. After soaking for 336 h, its integrated PL intensity maintains over 78.9% of its initial value (Fig.  8(c )). By contrast, the luminescence intensity of the pristine KSFM dramatically decreases to ca. 68.9% of its initial value after only 24 h of immersion in water, and finally remains approximately at 67.9% after soaking for 336 h (Fig.  8(c) ). Meanwhile, it is observed that after soaking for 336 h, the body color of KSFM turns dark brown, while KSFM-EDTA remains bright yellow throughout the soaking time, and KSFM-sEDTA turns light orange (Fig.  8 (c) inset). The samples passivated by other complexing agents including EDTA⋅2Na, HEDTA, IDA and EGTA through Method 1 and 2 described above also demonstrates good water resistance (Figs.  S6  and S7 ), retaining the intensities of 106%, 96%, 101%, 89%, and 99%, 88%, 74%, 90% of their initial values, respectively (Fig.  S8 ). The changes of the samples in PLE spectra with the corresponding soaking time roughly parallels with those in their PL spectra, and the maximum characteristic wavelength almost remains unchanged (Fig.  8(a) ). Further observation indicates that after soaking the samples in water for 30 days, KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA still emits bright red light under illumination of 365 nm light, while   KSFM hardly emits light (Fig.  S9 ). Moreover, the pH value of the supernatant of KSFM soaked in water at room temperature for 10 days was determined to be ~4, whereas the values of KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA were approximately 5.2. This result suggests that all samples underwent hydrolysis as indicated in Eq. (  2 ), but the hydrolyzed degree of the passivated KSFM was considerably lower than that of the unpassivated KSFM. When monitored at room temperature under excitation at 450 nm, the luminescence decay curves of KSFM-sEDTA, KSFM-EDTA and KSFM soaked in water for different times likewise display a single-exponential decay pattern, as shown in Fig.  8(d-f ). The fitted PL lifetimes, τ, of both KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA are gradually prolonged to 8.77 ms from 8.74 ms, and to 8.41 ms from 8.36 ms after soaking for 336 h, respectively, with KSFM-EDTA showing more pronounced. During 336 h, the τ of both phosphors first increases significantly and then decreases gradually. For KSFM, the trend of changes in its luminescence lifetime within 168 h is similar to those of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA, however, τ increases slightly. After soaked for 336 h, the lifetime of KSFM is shortened to 8.12 ms from the initial 8.16 ms. Obviously, the improvement in the moisture resistance of KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA is accompanied by a prolongation in their luminescence lifetimes, which further confirms the role of surface passivation using EDTA in reducing the non-radiative energy migration to the defects on the surface of KSFM.   (d-f ) Luminescence decay curves. The inset in Fig.  8c  shows the color changes of the phosphor body and the supernate after just dispersing each phosphor in water and soaking for 336 h at room temperature. The surface morphology and chemical composition of the samples soaked for the same time also showed noticeable differences. After soaking KSFM in water for 336 h, the crystal edges became serrated, and more small particles were generated and adhered to its surface. However, for KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA, the originally clear crystal edges only became slightly rougher (Fig.  S10 ). The initially strong Mn 2p XPS signal of Mn 4+ on KSFM slightly increased with water-soaking time (Fig.  9(a) ). As for KSFM-sEDTA, a weak XPS signal of Mn 4+ was observed after soaking for 72 h, and its intensity became stronger after 336 h of soaking (Dashed box in Fig.  9(b) ). Notably, a very weak signal of Mn 4+ was discerned on KSFM-EDTA till 336 h of soaking (Dashed box in Fig.  9  (c)). Obviously, after EDTA passivation, the water resistance of KSFM phosphor at room temperature is significantly enhanced. Then, the waterproofness of the EDTA-passivated phosphors was further examined in boiling water. As shown in Fig.  10 , after soaking in boiling water for 10 min, the excitation and emission intensity of the unpassivated KSFM declines dramatically, and the PL intensity decreases to about 47.4% of its initial value (Fig.  10(b) ). When irradiated by 365 nm light, almost no red luminescence was observed. The colors of phosphor body and supernate quickly turned dark brown within 2 min, suggesting the production of manganese hydroxides and oxides. The FE-SEM images showed that, after 10 min of soaking, many tiny particles and micro etch pits appeared on the surface of KSFM, which indicates that the surface microstructure of KSFM has been severely ruined by water. For KSFM-sEDTA, the PLE and PL intensity also noticeably attenuated, maintaining about 47.5% of its initial intensity after boiling for 10 min. The body color started to darken after soaking for about 5 min and became pale brown after 10 min, indicating the generation of manganese hydroxides and oxides as well. Nevertheless, KSFM-sEDTA still emitted red light under irradiation of 365 nm light. The FE-SEM images showed that the smooth crystal edges became serrated and erosion pits appeared, meanwhile, many irregular small particles were observed adhering to the crystal surface. Significantly, KSFM-EDTA still emitted strong red light after boiling for 10 min, with an intensity of 73.6% of its initial value (Fig.  10(b) ). The body color turned light brown, indicating that a small amount of manganese hydroxides and oxides were produced. Sparse small particles were observed adhering to the crystal surface of KSFM-EDTA, but its surface appeared slightly smoother than the eroded KSFM-sEDTA. For all samples, no significant change was observed in the phase structure after 10 min of soaking in boiling water. Based on the above results, it is clearly seen that after simple posttreatment with EDTA the water resistance of KSFM phosphor was significantly improved. Overall, the water-resistant effect of KSFM treated by Method 2 is better than that by Method 1. The instability of the Mn 4+ -doped fluoride phosphors exposed to a humid environment has been recognized to be caused by the hydrolysis of the activator Mn 4+ on their surface/near surface rather than the decomposition of the fluoride matrix  [19, 37] . The manganese hydrolysates are likely to act as the fluorescence quenching centers. In addition, the surface self-defects of phosphors can capture the energy of excited Mn 4+ ions on their surfaces, and increase the energy consumed in the form of non-radiative transitions, leading to attenuation of the luminescence intensity of phosphors  [25, 39, 43] . As discussed above, the surface layer of KSFM in contact with water can undergo dissolution and partial ionization, forming complex anions, [SiF 6 ] 2-, [MnF 6 ] 2-and cation K + (Eq. (  1 )). The dissociated [SiF 6 ] 2-can quickly bind to K + to form K 2 SiF 6 due to a low solubility of K 2 SiF 6 (K sp = 8.7 × 10 -7 )  [13] . The in-situ formed K 2 SiF 6 has the same physicochemical properties as the    phosphor matrix, and thus serves as a protective layer competent for isolating the internal luminescent [MnF 6 ] 2-groups from attack of external water. The situation for the dissociated [MnF 6 ] 2-groups is quite different. The free [MnF 6 ] 2-can easily react with water to generate solid Mn(OH) 4 , which is finally converted into brown-black MnO 2 precipitation (Eq. (  3 )) adsorbed on the surface of KSFM, thereby affecting the luminescence efficiency of the phosphor  [10, 27] . The passivation using appropriate reducing agents can remove the Mn 4+ ions from the phosphor surface due to a strong oxidative capacity of Mn 4+ (φ θ Mn 4+ /Mn 2+ = 1.64 eV), leaving a fluoride matrix deactivation layer that prevents the internal Mn 4+ from further hydrolysis  [44] . In this study, aminocarboxyl complexants can not only reduce Mn 4+ to Mn 2+ , but chelate Mn 2+ to produce soluble manganese complexes. By this means, the [MnF 6 ] 2-groups on the surface of KSFM was consumed in the treating process, and a Mn 4+ -rare K 2 SiF 6 protective shell formed in situ. In addition, a certain amount of residual EDTA and/or its related compounds adsorbed on the surface of newly-formed Mn 4+ -rare K 2 SiF 6 shell, forming a second layer that may collaboratively protect the internal [MnF 6 ] 2-groups. Hence, the substantial enhancement of luminescence performance and water resistance of KSFM treated by aminocarboxyl complexants can be attributed to the formation of a dual Mn 4+ -rare protective layer on the surface of KSFM, blocking the non-radiative energy transfer path. Comparatively, the water-resistant effect of KSFM passivated by Method 2 is better than that by Method 1. This is likely related to the following two factors: firstly, more amount of the surface Mn 4+ may be engaged in the redox reaction in Method 2, since KSFM was more involved in the dynamic equilibrium process of dissolution-crystallization in hydrofluoric acid solution than in near-neutral aqueous solution  [32, 43] . Secondly, a higher degree of redox reaction may occur during the passivation process of Method 2 relative to Method 1 due to the stronger oxidation capacity of Mn 4+ in a strong acidic medium. As a result, more amount of Mn 4+ was removed from the surface of KSFM and thicker Mn 4+ -rare K 2 SiF 6 shell layers on the surface of KSFM were accordingly constructed by Method 2. Interestingly, after being simply re-treated with EDTA by the same methods as the passivation, the luminescence of the KSFM samples eroded by water can be significantly restored. When the water-eroded KSFM samples were fully dispersed in a saturated EDTA aqueous solution (Method 1) or a hydrofluoric solution containing a certain amount of EDTA (Method 2) under continuous stirring, the EDTA solution quickly became opaque, and then gradually became transparent. After stirring for ca. 20 min, the body color of the phosphors almost returned to yellow. When the KSFM samples eroded by boiling water were treated with EDTA using Method 1 and 2, their PL intensities were restored by about 2.4 and 1.6 times, respectively (Fig.  11(b )), which are much higher than the reported results using other reducing agents  [32, 34] . Similar effects were observed on the changes in their PLE intensities (Fig.  11(a) ). It is well known that the luminescence characteristics of phosphors are highly correlated with their morphology, phase structure, and defect-free surface, etc.  [30] . The FE-SEM results shown in Fig.  S11  clearly demonstrate that the irregular small particles generated by water erosion adhering to the surface of the crystal have been effectively removed. Besides, the severe erosion pits caused by boiling water were almost repaired and the edges of the crystal became relatively smooth. Evidently, such simple re-treatment can not only effectively remove the adsorbed manganese hydrolysates, but also repair the defects on the surface of the water-eroded KSFM, therefore restoring its luminescence by virtue of reducing the non-radiative transition probability of Mn 4+ . 
 Performance of wLEDs fabricated with the passivated KSFM To evaluate the application potential of KSFM passivated by complexones in lighting, three prototype wLEDs were assembled by packaging a mixture of KSFM-EDTA or KSFM-sEDTA or pristine KSFM and YAG:Ce 3+ (in a mass ratio of 1:1), and ZWL8820 organic silicone (1:1 mass ratio to phosphor mixture) onto an InGaN chip (~450 nm, 1 w). After curing in an oven at 80 • C for 1 h, the electroluminescence performance of each wLED was tested at 25 • C under 2.6 V and different driving currents. The wLEDs fabricated with KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA are labeled as wLED1 and wLED2, respectively. The unpassivated KSFM was used as a control, and as-assembled LED is marked as wLED3. The typical photoelectric parameters of wLED1 and wLED2 measured under different driving currents are presented in Table  S2 , and their electroluminescence (EL) spectra and CIE chromaticity coordinates measured under a driving current of 10 mA are shown in Fig.  12(a-d ). It is seen that EL of the two wLEDs display a full color emission in the entire visible region. The chromaticity coordinates obtained from the spectral data of the device are marked by a black cross in the CIE color space, where the values are 0.3965, 0.3880 for wLED1, and 0.3927, 0.3927 for wLED2. The color coordinates are all located at warm white light area, with CRI of 88.3 and 85.9, and CCT of 3680 K and 3805 K, respectively. The luminous efficacies (LE) are 170.61 lm/W and 166.4 lm/W, respectively, which are comparable to or better than the performance of wLEDs assembled with KSFM passivated by other reagents  [17, 34, 35, 39, 42] , and far superior to the commercial wLEDs packaged with only YAG:Ce 3+ yellow phosphor  [12] . In contrast, the CRI, CCT, and LE values of the original KSFM were 89.7, 3812 and 160.25, respectively. The results indicates that the surface passivation of KSFM with EDTA can substantially improve the luminescent property of the phosphor. An aging process of 550 h for the three wLEDs was carried out in a high temperature (HT, 85 • C) and high humidity (HH, 85%) environment to further examine the long-term photostability of wLED devices. The EL parameters were measured every 50 h under a drive current of  10 mA. The changes of EL spectra, LE and CCT of the three wLEDs with aging time are depicted in Fig.  12(e-i ), respectively, and the typical photoelectric parameters for wLED1 and wLED2 fabricated with EDTApassivated KSFM are listed in Table  S3 . It can be seen that the EL intensities of the three wLEDs under the HTHH conditions decline with the aging time. The LE values decrease noticeably within 300-400 h, and then remain almost invariable until 550 h. After 250 h of aging, the reduction degree of both wLED1 and wLED2 is significantly smaller than that of wLED3. Compared to wLED2, the LE of wLED1 declines slowly. The results indicate that, like the pristine KSFM, the two EDTApassivated KSFM phosphors in the devices also underwent hydrolysis during aging, especially in the early aging stage. Nevertheless, after being aged for 550 h, the LE values of wLED1 and wLED2 still remained at 90.6% and 88.6% of their initial values, respectively, while LE value of wLED3 retained 86.5%. In addition, Fig.  12 (i) shows that CCT values of wLED2 and wLED3 increase almost directly from 3721 K to 4014 K and from 3812 K to 3953 K, respectively, resulting in a significant shift in the CIE coordinate, while CCT of wLED1 rises relatively slowly (3655 K-3853 K) and its CIE coordinate also shifts gently. Obviously, wLED1 with KSFM-EDTA component exhibits higher long-term photostability in HTHH environments than wLED2 with KSFM-sEDTA and wLED3 with the un-passivated KSFM, which is further suggestive of higher stability of KSFM-EDTA. KSFM-EDTA displays more promising prospects in prolonging the service life of wLEDs with higher electroluminescence performance. 
 Conclusions In summary, the typical representative of Mn 4+ -doped fluorinated phosphors, KSFM, was prepared referring to the reported one-step redox co-precipitation method with some modifications, and the synthesis process regarding maintaining Mn 4+ valence and reducing impurities was briefly discussed. A redox surface treatment strategy was proposed to passivate KSFM through simply dispersing the synthesized KSFM in a saturated complexone aqueous solution (Method 1) or a hydrofluoric acid solution containing a complexone (Method 2) and stirring for a short time at room temperature. EDTA was taken as an example for the examination in detail. Based on the results of FTIR, XPS and TGA, a dual Mn 4+ -rare protective layer composed of a K 2 SiF 6 matrix shell and an organic coating of residual EDTA and/or its related compounds was formed in situ. The passivation layer constructed by Method 2 was more significant than Method 1, which was verified by the fact that KSFM- EDTA showed remarkably enhanced luminescence and improved water resistance over KSFM-sEDTA. The luminescence intensities of the two EDTA-passivated KSFM phosphors gradually increased with temperature elevation and were consistently higher than that of KSFM until about 127 • C, exhibiting a NTQ effect. The EDTA passivation slightly prolonged the luminescence lifetime decay and significantly increased the quantum yield of KSFM phosphor. After 336 h (14 days) of soaking in water at room temperature, the luminescence intensities of KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA maintained 94.1% and 78.9% of their initial values, respectively, while the un-passivated KSFM only retained 67.9%. Even being soaked in boiling water for 10 min, the two passivated KSFM still remained 73.6% and 47.5%, compared to KSFM remaining 47.4%. After re-treatment of the water-eroded KSFM samples with EDTA by Method 1 or 2, their luminescence was restored to varying degrees due to the removal of the manganese hydrolysates and repair of the crystal surface defects, which further clarified the role of EDTA. Lastly, the wLEDs fabricated with KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA as a red phosphor exhibited low correlated color temperatures (3680 K and 3805 K), high color rendering index (88.3 and 85.9) and luminous efficiency (170.61 lm/W and 162.51 lm/W) at 25 • C, which are more superior to wLED3 assembled with the pristine KSFM. After being aged for 550 h in HTHH environment, the LE of the two wLEDs retained at 90.6% and 88.6% of their initial values with no remarkable changes of the correlated color temperature, compared to wLED3 retaining 86.5%. It is expected that such a surface-redox passivation strategy can be expanded to other Mn 4+ -doped phosphor systems, and also opens a new perspective for the development of luminescence materials with enhanced surface stability and device duration.   K 2 2 Si 1-x Mn x F 6 (s) → 2K + (aq) + (1-x)[SiF 6 ] 2-(aq) + x[MnF 6 ] 2-(aq) (1) [MnF 6 ] 2-(aq) + 4H 2 O (l) → Mn(OH) 4 (s) + 4H + (aq) + 6F -(aq) 
 Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. XRD patterns of KSFM, KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA. 
 Fig. 2 . 2 Fig. 2. FE-SEM images and the corresponding EDS spectra of (a, b) KSFM, (c, d) KSFM-EDTA, and (e, f) KSFM-sEDTA. 
 F . Su et al. The TGA results indicate that, for the un-passivated KSFM (short dash line shown in Fig. 4(b)), little mass loss from 20 • C to ca. 613 • C was observed. In contrast, KSFM-EDTA begins to decompose at 231.87 • C, and the mass remains almost unchanged after 279 • C till 620 • C, showing a mass loss of ca. 4.35% at 620 • C. The starting temperature point of the mass loss of KSFM-EDTA is close to the decomposition temperature of EDTA (250.14• C), which confirms the presence of EDTA and its Mn complexes on the surface of KSFM-EDTA. Within the same temperature range, the mass loss of KFSM-sEDTA was hardly observed, suggesting a very low amount of EDTA and related compounds adsorbed on its surface, which is in agreement with the FTIR results. 
 Fig. 3 . 3 Fig. 3. XPS spectra of KSFM, KSFM-EDTA, and KSFM-sEDTA. (a) Survey scanning XPS spectra, (b) Magnified Mn2p of KSFM, (c) Mn valences fitted from Mn2p signal at 642.7 eV of KSFM, and (d) Magnified C1s of KSFM, KSFM-EDTA, and KSFM-sEDTA. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. (a) FTIR spectra and (b) TGA curves of KSFM, KSFM-EDTA and KSFM-sEDTA. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 6 . 6 Fig. 6. Temperature-dependent PL spectra of (a) KSFM, (b) KSFM-EDTA and (c) KSFM-EDTA, and (d) comparison of the integrated intensities of the phosphors. 
 Fig. 7 . 7 Fig. 7. Luminescence decay curves (a) and luminescence efficiency (b) of KSFM, KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA measured at room temperature. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 8 . 8 Fig. 8. Changes in PLE and PL, and luminescence lifetimes of KSFM, KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA with soaking time in water at room temperature. (a) PLE spectra; (b) PL spectra; (c) Changes of the integrated intensity of each phosphor with soaking time;(d-f) Luminescence decay curves. The inset in Fig.8cshows the color changes of the phosphor body and the supernate after just dispersing each phosphor in water and soaking for 336 h at room temperature. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 9 . 9 Fig. 9. Mn 2p XPS spectra of (a) KSFM, (b) KSFM-sEDTA and (c) KSFM-EDTA after soaking in water for 72 h and 336 h at room temperature. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 10 . 10 Fig. 10. Changes of PLE and PL, and microstructure of KSFM, KSFM-sEDTA and KSFM-EDTA after soaking in boiling water for 10 min. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 11 . 11 Fig. 11. Restoration of (a) PLE and (b) PL of KSFM eroded by boiling water using EDTA through Method 1 and 2. 
 F .Su et al.    
 Fig. 12 . 12 Fig. 12. Performance of wLEDs fabricated with KSFM-EDTA, KSFM-EDTA and KSFM under a 10 mA driving current. (a,c) Room-temperature EL and (b,d) CIE chromaticity coordinate of wLED1 and wLED2; Changes of (e, f, g) EL, (h) LE and (i) CCT changes of wLED1, wLED2 and wLED3 under conditions of 85 • C and 85% humidity with aging time. Insets in (a) and (c) are the luminous photos of wLED1 and wLED2, respectively. 
 Fig. 12 . 12 Fig. 12. (continued). 
 F .Su et al.    
 
 
 Table 1 1 Crystal parameters of K 2 SiF 6 and the KSFM samples. a = b = c/Å α = β = γ/ • V/Å 3 K 2 SiF 6 8.1348 90 538.20 KSFM 8.1422 90 539.79 KSFM-sEDTA 8.1403 90 539.39 KSFM-EDTA 8.1405 90 539.45
