Paper #: 18847_1
Title: Improving the light trapping ability and flexural strength of ultrathin monocrystalline silicon wafers with submicron pyramid textures
Ultrathin monocrystalline silicon (mono-Si) wafers with thicknesses less than 100 μm have gained significant attention from the PV community, not only because of the decreased consumption of silicon materials but also because of their excellent flexural strength. However, the 1-3 μm pyramids introduced by the conventional alkaline texturing process affect the mechanical strength of ultrathin wafers. In this study, we demonstrate a novel texturing process that combines metal-catalyzed chemical etching and alkaline etching for ~80 μm wafers. The resulting submicron pyramids of ~865 nm endowed the wafers with better light trapping ability and flexural strength than did conventional alkaline-textured wafers with the same thickness. Due to the introduction of a porous silicon layer, submicron pyramids can form very quickly in 240 s at 60 • C; as a comparison, the conventional alkaline texturing process should be carried out in 420 s at 80 • C. The flexural strength of textured ultrathin wafers can be largely enhanced by using a separate edge rounding procedure. Therefore, such a novel texturing process combined with a simple edge rounding procedure offers a promising solution for texturing ultrathin wafers as a footstone for fabricating flexible mono-Si solar cells.
Introduction Over the past two decades, the photovoltaic (PV) industry has experienced a period of vigorous development, i.e., the global PV installed capacity was ~1.3 GW in 2000 but over 1100 GW in 2022, driven by the strong demand for lowering the levelized cost of energy (LCOE). Certainly, higher efficiency (η) can largely reduce LCOE; therefore, we have seen rapid iteration of PV cell technologies from aluminium back surface field (Al-BSF) to passivated emitter rear contact (PERC) since 2016 and from PERC to tunneling oxide passivated contact (TOPCon) and silicon heterojunction (SHJ) since 2020. Nowadays, both TOPCon and SHJ solar cells have mass production efficiencies greater than 26%. In addition, with the progress of wafer slicing technology, the thickness of silicon wafers has been reduced significantly, i.e., ~180 μm in 2000 but 110-150 μm in the present market. There is no doubt that thinner wafers mean less material consumption, resulting in a cost reduction of 9-21%  [1] [2] [3] . Ultrathin wafers less than 100 μm in thickness have attracted much interest from the PV community due to not only much lower LCOE but also more advantages, such as excellent flexibility and reliable potential efficiency for next-generation solar cells  [4] [5] [6] . Flexible ultrathin monocrystalline silicon (mono-Si) solar cells have attracted much attention from researchers due to their lightweight, portable, flexible design and high reliability, which greatly expands the application scenarios of solar cells  [7] [8] [9] . However, ultrathin wafers have a lower light absorption capacity due to insufficient thickness, especially for long wavelength sunlight; usually, the light trapping ability of ultrathin wafers can be improved to a certain extent by using a conventional alkaline texturing (CT) process  [10, 11] . Unfortunately, the resulting 1-3 μm-sized (refers to the base lengths of pyramid structures) CT pyramids may deteriorate the mechanical properties of ultrathin wafers by enlarging the localized stress at the bottom of the pyramids during bending, eventually leading to the formation of crack initiation sites  [12] [13] [14] . A pyramid blunting procedure can reduce the risk of fragility, but the reflection of textured ultrathin wafers becomes more intense  [12, 15] .To achieve better light absorption, several novel textures, such as nanopyramids and inverted pyramids, have been incorporated on ultrathin wafers, but may lead to poor surface passivation  [7, 16] . In any case, submicrometre texturation with novel geometries is considered to be an important research direction for improving light absorption in ultrathin solar cells  [17] . Recently, Garin et al. reported that a black-Si nanotexture was successfully applied to ultrathin Si substrates with thicknesses down to 10 μm and achieved 16.4% efficiency for a 40 μm thick IBC solar cell with front surface passivation with an Al 2 O 3 /SiC stack  [18] . Although the results are encouraging, the productability will require further evaluation. Therefore, finding a proper texture process compatible with existing production lines for the mass production of ultrathin wafers with excellent flexibility and light trapping performance is still challenging. In the present work, we propose a novel texturing (NT) process in which a highly active porous silicon layer is first produced on the surface by using metal-catalyzed chemical etching  (8) ; subsequently, submicron pyramids are formed by using an alkaline etching process. To achieve the same reflection, the NT process can be completed as quickly as 240 s at 60 • C but 420 s at 80 • C for the CT process. More importantly, the size of the NT pyramids is ~865 nm, which is much smaller than that of the CT pyramids (~2.1 μm), indicating better light trapping ability and a lower mass reduction during the texture process. Moreover, the flexibility of ultrathin NT wafers can be further improved by an edge rounding process. We believe that the NT process has great potential for the mass production of flexible ultrathin mono-Si solar cells, which not only can reduce energy costs (lower texture temperature) and increase volume yields (fast texturing) but also that these micron pyramids show excellent light absorption for higher cell efficiency. 
 Experimental 
 CT and NT processes As-cut thin mono-Si wafers (n-type, 210 mm × 210 mm × 110 μm in size, with a resistivity of 1.2 ± 0.9 Ω cm) were first polished by using 11.1 wt% KOH and 3.2 vol% additive (PSP-50, Sunny PV, China) at 80 • C for 18 min and 26 min, respectively, to obtain thicknesses of ~80 μm and ~60 μm, respectively. The as-cut commercial wafers with a thickness of ~140 μm were also used as a reference in the experiment. All wafer samples were cut into 5 cm × 2.5 cm pieces for further experimentation. Wafer samples of the same type were equally divided into two groups and subjected to CT and NT processes. The main flow of the two processes is shown in Fig.  1 . The CT process was applied to one group of as-polished wafers in a texture solution containing 1.8 wt% KOH and 1.2 vol% additive (FAT-55, Sunny PV, China) at 80 • C for 420 s to form 1-3 μm random pyramids, following a clean procedure to remove organic residues in a mixture of 0.7 wt% KOH and 2 wt% H 2 O 2 at 65 • C for 180 s. In parallel, another group of as-polished wafers was subjected to the NT process: 1) The wafers were subjected to an MCCE process in a mixture of 0.28 μmol/L AgNO 3 , 27.3 vol% HF and 14.5 vol% HNO 3 at 30 • C for 180 s, which eventually induced the formation of porous microstructures on the surface; 2) A mixed solution of 14.3 vol% NH 3 ⋅H 2 O and 14.3 vol% H 2 O 2 at 65 • C for 180 s was then used to remove metal residues from the wafer surface; 3) The MCCE-treated wafers were etched in the same texturing solution as the CT process, but the etching temperature was reduced to 60 • C, and the etching time was varied to 240 s. The cleaning procedure was carried out according to the CT process as described above. Finally, a rounding procedure was applied for both the CT and NT wafers: 1) the wafers were placed in a mixture of 12.5 vol% HF and 62.5 vol% HNO 3 at 30 • C for 5 s to slightly smooth the bottom of the pyramids. 2) Then, the samples were immersed in a mixture of 5 vol% HF and 5 vol% HCl at 30 • C for 180 s to remove the oxide layer and some metal ion impurities. It should be noted that between each of these steps the mono-Si wafers were rinsed several times with homemade deionized water from the laboratory. 
 Characterization The microstructure of the wafers was observed and analyzed using a field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM, S-4700, Hitachi, Japan) with Nano-Measurer 1.2 software. The reflectance and transmission spectra of the wafers were characterized using a UV-VIS-NIR spectrometer (UH-4150, Hitachi, Japan). The wafer flexibility was measured by using a microcomputer-controlled electronic universal testing machine (CMT-2503, SUST, China). 
 Results and discussion 
 Submicron texturing mechanism The surface microstructure evolution of the as-polished wafer during the NT process is illustrated in Fig.  2(a) . Note that the saw-damaged layer with a thickness of ~3 μm on each side of the wafer introduced by the slicing process was completely etched away during the polishing procedure  [19, 20] . In the MCCE stage, a porous silicon layer featuring a large number of irregular pores with an aspect ratio of ~5 (100-200 nm in diameter, 500-1000 nm in depth) was fabricated into the wafer surface, as indicated in Fig.  2(b  and c ). The mechanism of MCCE porous silicon has been intensively studied elsewhere  [21] [22] [23] . It is well accepted that the electrons in silicon can be trapped on the wafer surface because the electronegativity of Ag + /Ag is stronger than that of silicon, after which Ag + will be reduced and grow into Ag nanoparticles (Ag NPs)  [21, 24, 25] . The potential difference between the upper and lower surfaces of Ag NPs and the influence of the built-in electric field and the solution environment lead to the oxidation of mono-Si under Ag NPs and the corrosion of a large number of porous structures  [22, 26, 27] . Additionally, these Ag NPs are not always oriented vertically downward along the (100) crystal surface, leading to helical etching and transverse etching phenomena  [28] [29] [30] . Nevertheless, the wafer surface became very active due to the massive porous Si layer with a high aspect ratio )  [11, 31] . After alkaline etching for 60 s, a large number of square holes composed of (111) crystallites are produced on the wafer, as shown in Fig.  2(d  and e )  [28, 29, 32] . Obviously, MCCE porous Si not only provides a number of starting points for alkaline etching but can also change the reaction kinetics. In a very short time (60 s) and at a lower temperature of 60 • C, the square holes that formed as the inner walls of the MCCE porous Si were stripped from top to bottom, and the hole size increased to 1-2 μm in width and depth. In addition, as marked by the pink arrows in Fig.  2(c ), the appearance of a few small pyramidal nucleation sites on the (100) crystal faces is most likely due to the hollow wafer structure created by transverse etching during the MCCE stage, which exfoliates faster during etching and thus preferentially appears as pyramidal nucleation sites  [29, 33, 34] . After alkaline etching for ~240 s, the wafer was fully covered with micron pyramids of ~800-1000 nm, as shown in Fig.  2(f  and g ). In the period from 60 to 240 s, the outer layer of porous silicon gradually peeled off, and the square holes disappeared, finally growing into a uniform pyramidal texture  [11, 35, 36] . The surface microstructure evolution of the as-polished wafer during the CT process is also provided for comparison. For the CT process, there were only a few small pyramid nuclei less than 50 nm in size on the wafer surface at the beginning of etching (Fig.  2(h) ). When the etching time increased to 240 s, the pyramids grew significantly, while large areas of the wafer surface were still not covered by pyramid structures (Fig.  2(i) ). Until the etching time reached 420 s, the wafer surface was completely covered by pyramid structures with a size of 1-3 μm (Fig.  2(j) ). It is worth noting that complete pyramid texturing during the CT process was carried out by using the same alkaline etching receipt with NT, but the reaction conditions were different (at 80 • C for 420 s). These findings prove that the NT process has advantages, such as a lower etching temperature and more rapid formation of submicron pyramidal textures, with the help of MCCE porous Si  [11] . 
 Mass reduction and optical performance of textured ultrathin wafer The low-magnification SEM image (Fig.  3(a) ) shows the overall morphology of the wafer textured using the NT process for 240 s. It can be clearly seen that the pyramid structures prepared by the NT process are submicron in size and uniform in distribution. For comparison, the  NT pyramids are highly uniform and concentrated in terms of their mean value, which may be very beneficial for the subsequent cell manufacturing process  [37, 38] . Fig.  3(d)  shows the absorption spectra of the wafers with three different thicknesses of 60 μm, 80 μm and 140 μm textured using the NT process for 240 s, and compares them with that of the wafer with a thickness of 140 μm textured using the CT process for 420 s. The corresponding reflectance spectra and transmission spectra are presented in Fig.  S1  (Supporting Information). Under the same texturing process, the absorption in the range of 700-1100 nm decreases significantly as the thickness of the wafer decrease. This is because a thinner silicon wafer results in incomplete light absorption, especially at long wavelengths (>900 nm)  [8, 14, 39] . The two plots for both the CT and NT wafers with a thickness of 140 μm almost overlap from 400 nm to 1000 nm, but diverge slightly from 300 nm to 500 nm. The absorption of the NT wafer is slightly improved at short wavelengths due to the denser and smaller submicron pyramids, which increase the probability of short-wavelength photons being refracted into bulk silicon  [17, 36, 37] . To demonstrate the kinetics of the NT process, SEM images of the wafer after alkaline etching at intervals of 20 s after MCCE during the NT process are shown in Fig.  4(a) . In the NT process, the nucleation of the pyramids was initiated from the porous structures etched by MCCE, and the wafer surface evolved from porous structures to partially inverted pyramids and finally to completely covered upright pyramids with increasing alkaline etching time. This is obviously different from the mechanism of pyramid nucleation and growth on the wafer surface in the CT process, which mainly relies on nucleating agents in additives. The high surface chemical state of porous silicon structures is the fundamental reason why the NT process can achieve fast (240 s) and low-temperature (60 • C) alkaline texturing. Of course, the MCCE process had a crucial impact on the final pyramid formation in the NT process. We investigated the effect of the MCCE process, including the Ag + concentration, HF/HNO 3 molar ratio and etching time, on the final pyramid texture morphologies, as shown in Fig.  S2 , S3 and S4 (Supporting Information). For the CT process, it is worth noting that the mono-Si surface cannot be completely textured at low temperature or for short periods of time (Figs. S5 and S6, Supporting Information) The reflectance spectra within the wavelength range of 300-1100 nm for the wafer after alkaline etching for different periods during the NT process are shown in Fig.  4(b ). The weighted average reflectance (WAR) is calculated by integrating the reflectance of the wafer with the AM1.5 G solar spectrum at the corresponding wavelength, where R(λ) is the reflectance and S(λ) is the AM1.5 G solar spectrum  [11, 24] . As shown in equation  (1) : R(λ) = ∫ 1100nm 300nm R(λ)S(λ)dλ ∫ 1100nm 300nm S(λ)dλ (1) After MCCE, the wafer surface exhibited excellent trapping capacity with a WAR of 8.06% due to the presence of porous silicon structures. At the beginning of alkaline etching (60 s), the loose porous silicon layer on the wafer surface was etched away to expose some deep hole structures, and the WAR increased rapidly to 16.98%. With increasing alkaline etching time, the reflectance decreased gradually. When the etching time reaches 240 s, the reflectance of the NT wafer reaches its lowest value, and the WAR is 10.79%, which is slightly lower than that of the CT wafer (10.99%) (see Fig.  S1 ). Fig.  4 (c) shows the mass reduction and etching rate during the NT process to evaluate the kinetics of the NT process for the future application of ultrathin wafers. The average etching rate ν at each etching stage is calculated based on the following equations (  2 ) and (  3 ): Δm = 2ρ si SΔd (2) ν = Δd t = Δm 2ρ si St (3) where Δm refers to the mass reduction of the wafer sample before and after etching measured via an electronic balance, Δd is the effective etching depth per side of the Si wafer sample, ρ Si is the density of crystalline silicon, S is the surface area of the wafer sample, and t is the etching time  [11] . It is worth noting that a lower mass reduction is very important for the light absorption of ultrathin wafers. The total mass reduction in the NT process, including the MCCE and alkaline etching, was ~7.57%, which was slightly lower than the ~8.25% mass reduction in the CT process. Since we are unable to obtain as-cut 80 μm wafers from the current market, the NT process was applied directly to as-cut 110 μm wafers, the results of which were similar to those of the as-polished wafer (Fig.  S7 , Supporting Information)  [11, 31] . These results indicated that the NT process can reduce the mass loss of ultrathin wafers, thus providing a promising solution for future flexible PV devices  [13, 14, 40] . In the MCCE stage, the average etching rate of the wafer was ~14.5 nm/s, and this etching rate was almost the same as the average etching rate of the CT process. In the initial stage of alkaline etching in the NT process, the etching rate is very high at 20.3 nm/s, which is attributed to the high reaction activity of the loose porous silicon layer in alkaline solution  [11, 31] . When the etching time was increased from 60 s to 120 s, the etching rate decreased significantly due to the large depletion of loose silicon and the slow initial etching rate of bulk silicon  [11, 23] . When the etching time was increased from 120 s to 180 s, the etching rate increased significantly due to the higher specific surface area of the silicon surface, with a small number of relatively large craters remaining, and an increase in the number of pyramid texturing points  [41, 42] . When the etching time was increased from 180 s to 240 s, a slight increase in the etching rate was attributed to the rapid etch growth of a large number of incomplete pyramid textures, which also provided the basis for the overall acceleration  [11] .  
 Flexibility and breaking mechanism of ultrathin wafer with pyramid textures where F is the breaking load, L is the span, b is the width, and h is the thickness  [20, 43, 44] . Fig.  5 (c) shows the force-displacement curves of the different wafer samples. The NT samples exhibited excellent flexibility, with the vertical displacements at the cracking moment reaching 4.85 mm and 4.72 mm corresponding to the wafers with and without rounding, respectively, which is more superior than that of the CT samples and even more than that of the as-polished sample. Note that polished wafers are usually superior to textured wafers. As shown in Fig.  5 (d), the flexural strength of the wafers is ranked as follows: NT with rounding at ~1172 MPa > As-polished at ~1076 MPa > CT with rounding at ~941 MPa > NT without rounding at ~831 MPa > CT without rounding at ~578 MPa. The flexural strength of the as-polished wafer is greater than that of both the NT and CT wafers, confirming that the sharp channels between pyramidal prisms induce wafer breakage  [8, 12, 13] . Compared with the micron-scale CT texture, the submicron-scale NT texture has greater flexural strength, implying that sharp and large channels are more susceptible to stress concentration, which increases the probability of wafer breakage  [15, 45] . In addition, the force-displacement curves and calculated flexural strength values of the NT wafers of three different thicknesses with and without rounding are shown in Fig.  S8  (Supporting Information). As expected, thinner wafers exhibits superior flexibility. A. Li et al. Furthermore, the flexural strength of the NT wafers can be largely improved from ~831 MPa to ~1172 MPa by rounding the wafer edge, showing even greater flexibility than the as-polished wafer with a maximum force of ~5 N. Note that rounding the whole wafer will result in high reflection  [36, 37] . Therefore, only the ~1 mm edge of the wafer was subjected to the rounding procedure (Fig.  S9 , Supporting Information), in which only those pyramids in the very narrow edge area were rounded, ensuring that the ultrathin wafers had both low reflection and high flexural strength  [12, 46] . The above results confirm that the rounding process is an effective  method for modifying fracture behavior by adjusting the sharpness of the channels among either micron or submicron pyramids, thus releasing the stress state under bending loads. In particular, the use of the NT process with a rounding process is a promising solution for ultrathin wafer texturing  [12, 19, 41] . To determine the breaking mechanism of ultrathin wafers, a bending model was used, as shown in Fig.  6(a) . Taking the center of the submicron NT texture base as the cross section, the positive stress at any point on the cross section is proportional to the distance from the point to the neutral axis (z-axis), and the upper side of the pyramidal intertexture is subjected to the maximum compressive stress, while the bottom side is subjected to the maximum tensile stress  [43, 45, 47] . Since the dissociation plane of mono-Si is the (111) crystal plane, the bending stress concentrates at the channels among the pyramidal bases and reaches a maximum at the wafer edge; therefore, the fracture starts from those pyramidal bases at the wafer edge and gradually extends to the wafer center, as shown in Fig.  6 (b)  [12, 48, 49] . Fig.  6 (c) compares the central and edge surface SEM images of the ~80 μm wafer after rounding, and the sharpness among the rounded pyramids (marked as the red dashed circles) on the wafer edge is significantly smoother than that of the pyramids (marked as the red circles) on the central wafer  [12, 15] . The ~580 nm height of the edge pyramids is much smaller than the ~850 nm height of the central pyramids, as shown in Fig.  6(d) . The results indicate that the rounding procedure will etch not only the bottom of the pyramids but also the peak of the pyramids, which will certainly decrease the light trapping ability of the submicron texture. Fig.  6 (e) shows the reflectance spectra of the center and edge regions of the NT wafer after rounding, which reveal that the WAR values are 10.79% and 16.03% for the wafer center and edge, respectively. The higher reflectance for the edge is mainly attributed to a decrease in the height of the pyramids  [17, 46, 50] . With these data, the WAR for the 210 mm NT wafer with 1 mm edge rounding can be roughly calculated as ~10.89%, which is slightly higher than that of the NT wafer but still lower than that of the CT wafer (10.99%), but its flexibility is significantly improved. 
 Conclusion In summary, a novel submicron pyramidal texture process combined with MCCE and alkaline etching has been demonstrated for the future application of ultrathin wafers in the PV industry. The submicron texture ensured not only better light trapping ability but also greater flexural strength than did the conventional micron texture. Furthermore, a simple edge rounding procedure can largely enhance the flexural strength of an NT wafer by releasing localized stresses among the pyramids in the edge area. These two techniques are expected to pave the way for the mass production of ultrathin and flexible mono-Si solar cells.  
 CRediT authorship contribution statement 
 Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Fig. 1 . 1 Fig. 1. Main steps of sample preparation. Left: Novel texturing (NT) process in combination with MCCE and alkaline etching. Right: Conventional alkaline texturing process.. (black arrows indicate the NT process; pink arrows indicate the CT process.) 
 Fig. 2 .Fig. 3 . 23 Fig. 2. (a) Schematic illustration of the surface microstructure evolution of the as-polished wafer during the NT process. Top-view (top) and cross-sectional (middle) SEM images of the wafer treated after MCCE (b and c), after alkaline etching for 60 s (d and e), and after alkaline etching for 240 s (f and g) during the NT process. Top-view (bottom) SEM images of the wafer etched for (h) 60 s, (i) 240 s and (j) 420 s during the CT process. 
 Fig. 4 . 4 Fig. 4. (a) Top-view SEM images of the wafers after alkaline etching at intervals of 20 s during the NT process. (b) Reflectance spectra of the wafer after alkaline etching for different periods during the NT process. (c) Mass reductions and etching rates of the wafer by etching for different periods during the NT process, comparing them with those of the wafer during the CT process. 
 Fig. 5 ( 5 Fig. 5(a) and (b) show the photo and schematic diagram of the threepoint bending test installation, respectively. The force-displacement plots of ~80 μm ultrathin wafers were measured, and the flexural strength (R) of the wafer was calculated according to equation (4): R = 3FL 2bh 2(4) 
 Fig. 5 . 5 Fig. 5. (a) Photograph of the bending test installation. (b) Schematic diagram of the three-point bending test. (c) Force-displacement curves and (d) calculated flexural strength (R) values of the CT and NT wafers with and without rounding, comparing with those of the as-polished wafers. 
 Fig. 6 . 6 Fig. 6. (a) Schematic force diagram of an NT wafer with submicron pyramids in the bending state. (b) Schematic of the center and edge areas of the NT wafer after the rounding process; the red dashed line indicates the bending centerline, and the red dots indicate the initial breaking points at the edge. (c) Cross-sectional SEM images of the center and edge of the NT wafer after rounding. (d) Pyramid height statistics of the center and edge of the NT wafer after the rounding process. (e) Comparison of the reflectance spectra of the central NT texture and the edge-rounded NT texture. 
 Anxin Li : Li Writingoriginal draft, Visualization, Methodology, Data curation. Shuai Zou: Writingreview & editing, Project administration, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization, Supervision. Chen-Wei Peng: Methodology, Formal analysis. Mengfei Ni: Visualization, Formal analysis. Longfei Dai: Conceptualization. Wangyin Han: Formal analysis. Zheng Lu: Formal analysis. Zhenzhen Chen: Formal analysis, Methodology. Xiaodong Su: Writingreview & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Conceptualization.
