Paper #: 14884_1
Title: Hysteresis-free perovskite solar cells with over 24% efficiency enabled by ZnCl 2 doped SnO 2 electron transfer layer
Tin dioxide (SnO 2 ) has been widely applied as the electron transport layer (ETL) in perovskite solar cells. However, the SnO 2 with low conduction band minimum that has mismatched energy levels between the perovskite film and severe SnO 2 /perovskite interfacial defects is liable to cause nonradiative recombination. In order to modify the SnO 2 layer, herein, we introduced the zinc chloride (ZnCl 2 ) hydrochloric acid solution into the SnO 2 nanocrystals solution (SnO 2 -Zn) and proved that ZnCl 2 doping in the SnO 2 ETL is a simple and low-cost passivation method, which can significantly improve the efficiency and stability of devices and remove the hysteresis. Ultimately, an enhancement of open-circuit voltage from 1.13 to 1.16 V and an increased corresponding power conversion efficiency from 22.88% to 24.12% are achieved for the devices using SnO 2 -Zn ETL.
Published under an exclusive license by AIP Publishing.  https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0186904   The power conversion efficiency (PCE) of lead halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) is strongly related to the interface between the perovskite bulk phase and charge transporting layer (CTL), especially the electron transport layer (ETL).  1  Among the various electronic transport materials, tin dioxide (SnO 2 ) stands out as a promising ETL that has received much attention in recent years.  2  SnO 2 has high native mobility that reaches 240 cm 2 /(V s) and possesses a wide bandgap that is enough for visible light transmittance and a deep valence band maximum (VBM) that is effectively block holes.  3  At present, a commercial SnO 2 nanocrystal (NC) has been widely applied. However, the SnO 2 NCs-based ETLs still need further modifications to passivate severe SnO 2 /perovskite interfacial defects. Moreover, lots of potassium hydroxide (KOH) as a stabilizer existing in the SnO 2 NCs solution could cause charge-carrier extraction barrier.  4  Amounts of hydroxyl groups on the surface of SnO 2 films act as Brønsted bases and experience a deprotonation reaction with the perovskite. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a feasible method to carefully passivate SnO 2 and modify the SnO 2 /perovskite interface. To date, a large number of bulk additives or surface modifiers, such as organic small molecules  5  and polymers,  6  have been demonstrated to have effect for reducing oxygen vacancy defects on the SnO 2 surface. However, many organic molecules are expensive, and there exists instability during the annealing process of perovskite. Recently, the passivation role of chlorine has been confirmed, as doping Cl into SnO 2 could reduce the buried interfacial energy barrier and trap state density in the following prepared perovskite.  7  In addition, modifying the SnO 2 surface and increasing the carrier mobility by metal ions doping or bilayer architecture fabrication have also been applied.  8  For example, zinc oxide (ZnO) is considered as an attractive interfacial material and has been used as SnO 2 /ZnO bilayer architecture of ETLs to improve the performance of PSCs.  9  However, this method increases the fabrication process of solar cells, and it is difficult to synthesize uniform ZnO nanoparticles. Motivated by the above-mentioned discussion, in this work, we proposed a simple and feasible doping strategy for SnO 2 that introduces the zinc chloride (ZnCl 2 ) hydrochloric acid solution into the SnO 2 NCs solution (SnO 2 -Zn). Thanks to the existing H þ and Cl À , the trap-state of SnO 2 was reduced. Meanwhile, we demonstrated that ZnO existed in the deposited SnO 2 -Zn film rather than ZnCl 2 existence. Hence, the conduction band minimum (CBM) of SnO 2 -Zn ETL was higher than that of bare SnO 2 and exhibited proper energy alignment with perovskite. A competitive PCE of 24.12% along with a notable V OC of 1.16 V has been achieved for the PSC with SnO 2 -Zn ETL. Additionally, the hysteresis phenomenon was significantly suppressed in SnO 2 -Zn based PSCs attributed to the enhanced electronic extraction capability of SnO 2 -Zn and electron-hole transport equilibrium. In addition, the unencapsulated devices with SnO 2 -Zn ETL exhibit a charming stability. The planar n-i-p PSCs with device architecture of indium doped tin oxide (ITO)/SnO 2 -Zn ETL/perovskite/Spiro-OMeTAD/Ag is shown in Fig.  1(a) . The SnO 2 -Zn ETL was prepared by spin coating a ZnCl 2 adopted SnO 2 NCs solution, and the detailed method is described in the experimental section. In order to clarify whether ZnCl 2 doping affects the light absorption of ETL, the light harvesting properties of the bare SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films deposited on the glass were performed by ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) absorption measurement. As shown in Fig.  S1 , no significant change can be observed, and the bandgap (E g ) of 3.94 eV do not show any change according to the absorption edge. Moreover, with the increase in the concentration of ZnCl 2 , there were no differences in the UV-vis absorption (Fig.  S2 ), indicating the transmittance of SnO 2 was not affected by ZnCl 2 doping. Then, the x-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) measurements were conducted on the bare SnO  colloidal solution, H þ in ZnCl 2 hydrochloric acid solution is neutralized after incorporating the ZnCl 2 solution into SnO 2 and generate KCl simultaneously. In addition, Zn 2þ is easy to form Zn(OH) 2 in alkaline environment and Zn(OH) 2 is easy to dehydrate and form ZnO under heat condition.  10  Therefore, ZnO is more likely to exist in the SnO 2 -Zn film rather than ZnCl 2 . As shown in Fig.  S3 , the XPS spectra of O 1s prove above inference that the signals of O 1s shifted to lower binding energy for the SnO 2 -Zn film owing to the lower electronegativity of Zn than Sn.  11  In addition, due to the doping of Cl, the peak shifts of Sn are observed in Fig.  S4 , which is consistent with previous literature.  7  For the surface morphology of the SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films, no significant change was observed from the top-view scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images. However, the higher zinc content can be distinguished in SnO 2 -Zn films by EDX mapping (Fig.  S5 ). To further probe the effect of Zn on the surface morphology and surface potential, atomic force microscope (AFM) and Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) measurements were performed. As shown in top-view AFM images (Fig.  S6 ), both SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films exhibit uniform and dense morphology. However, the roughness of the SnO 2 -Zn film is less than that of SnO 2 film. As shown in Fig.  1(d) , KPFM images show that the SnO 2 -Zn film surface exhibited a lower electronic chemical potential than that of the SnO 2 film, indicating an enhanced electronic extraction capability of SnO 2 -Zn film, which will be demonstrated later.  12  To further explore the energy level of SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films, ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) of the bare SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films was carried out [Figs.  2(a ) and 2(b)]. Moreover, the UV-vis absorption spectra and UPS of the perovskite films were also carried out to identify the bandgap and energy level of perovskite (Fig.  S7 ). According to these UPS results, the energy level band diagram has been drawn and is shown in Fig.  2(c ). The work functions of the SnO 2 , SnO 2 -Zn, and perovskite were determined to be À4.72, À4.57, and À4.44 eV, respectively. The CBM of the SnO 2 , SnO 2 -Zn, and perovskite was determined to be at À4.66, À4.42, and 4.24 eV, respectively. As shown in Fig.  2(d ), the 0.24 eV higher-lying CBM of SnO 2 -Zn offers a desirable energy level alignment with the perovskite film. It also provides a favorable matching of energy band between the SnO 2 -Zn ETL and the perovskite layer, which facilitates effective extraction of photogenerated electrons from the perovskite layer to ITO electrode. Then, the steady-state photoluminescent (PL) [Fig.  2(e) ] and time resolved PL (TRPL) (Fig.  S8 ) were performed for the perovskite films deposited on the SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn ETLs to verify the electron extraction. The PL intensity was reduced after doping ZnCl 2 into SnO 2 , which can be ascribed to the electron extraction capability of SnO 2 -Zn ETL. Moreover, PL decay curves were fitted via a bi-exponential function, and the fitted data are also summarized in Table  S1 . There are two terms of s1 and s2, which represent the fast and slow decay time constants, respectively. Strictly speaking, the decrease in the fast decay lifetime s1 (from 24.1 to 22.29 ns) indicates faster electron extraction from perovskite to ETL with the ZnCl 2 addition. The slow decay lifetime s2 increases for the perovskite film on SnO 2 -Zn (s2 from 82.13 to 98.27 ns), indicating a slower recombination rate in the bulk of perovskite film grown on SnO 2 -Zn ETL thanks to the increased grain size of perovskite.  13  To quantitatively estimate the trap density in perovskite, the space charge limited current method (SCLC) was taken to measure the trap density of the device structure as ITO/SnO 2 or SnO 2 -Zn/perovskite/PCBM/Ag [Fig.  2(f) ]. The trap density N trap is calculated from the equation: N trap ¼ (2ee 0 V TFL )/(eL 2 ), where e 0 , e, L, e, and V TFL are the vacuum permittivity, relative dielectric constant, thickness of perovskite film and trap-filled voltage, unit charge, and trap-filling voltage, respectively. The voltage at the bending point where the current increases linearly and nonlinearly with voltage is V TFL , which is determined by the defect density. V TFL for the SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn/ perovskite films obtained by measuring the dark I-V curves was 0.36 and 0.18 V, respectively, indicating the incorporation of ZnCl 2 pushed the device to produce a lower N trap than the ones based on the SnO 2 . Hence, these results mean the ZnCl 2 doping improves electron extraction capability of SnO 2 and reduced the defect density of perovskite film, further helpful to improve V OC and FF of solar cells. The photoelectric properties of n-i-p structure PSCs were studied. The best SnO 2 -Zn based device presents a respectable PCE of 24.12% with a gratifying V OC of 1.16 V, a J SC of 25.45 mA cm À2 , and FF of 81.45%, which is relatively better than that of the best SnO 2 based devices with a PCE of 22.88%, V OC of 1.14 V, a J SC of 24.97 mA cm À2 , and FF of 80.66% [Fig.  3(a) ]. The integrated J SC values calculated from the EQE spectra of SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices are 23.48 and 24.50 mA cm À2 , respectively. To confirm the reproducibility of the devices, the 30 SnO 2 based devices and SnO 2 -Zn based devices are counted in Fig.  3(c ). The photovoltaic parameters of PCE, V OC , FF, and J SC at various concentrations of addition of ZnCl 2 hydrochloric acid solution are summarized in Fig.  S9 . All parameters increased after the introduction of ZnCl 2 solution up to 10 mM, beyond which the performance started to degrade. The performance decrease could be attributed to the generated excess KCl on the SnO 2 surface, which hinders the charge transport from perovskite to ETL. The SnO 2 -Zn based devices exhibited higher V OC than the SnO2 based devices, which is in agreement with PL and SCLC results that the Zn doping effectively suppressed interface nonradiative recombination. Noteworthily, the hysteresis phenomenon was significantly suppressed by the ZnCl 2 doping. Figure  S10  shows the forward-scan (FS) and reverse-scan (RS) J-V curves for of the SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices. The hysteresis index [HI (%) ¼ ((PCE reverse À PCE forward )/PCE reverse ) Â 100)] is reduced from 3.5% in the SnO 2 based devices to 0.9% in the SnO 2 -Zn based devices as shown in Fig.  3(d) . Since the defects and charge transport equilibrium were previously attributed as a likely origin for the J-V hysteresis in PSCs,  14  the reduced hysteresis could be attributed to the enhanced electronic extraction capability and reduced defect density in SnO 2 -Zn based devices. The steady-state power output for the best SnO 2 -Zn based device measured at the maximum power point (V max ¼ 1.02 V) shows a steady efficiency of 23.57% over 180 s [Fig.  3(e) ], in good agreement with the J-V results. Then, the trap assisted carrier recombination was studied. The relationship between V OC and light intensity is shown in Fig.  3(f ). The SnO 2 based device exhibited an ideal factor of 1.53, while the SnO 2 -Zn based device exhibits a reduced ideal factor of 1.47. This result indicates that the trap assisted nonradiative recombination process in the device is effectively suppressed after doping with ZnCl 2 . In addition, Fig.  S11  shows J SC as a function of light intensity and fits the relationship of J S /I a where I is the light intensity and a is the pre-exponential factor related to the bimolecular recombination. The SnO 2 based device shows an a value of 0.997, whereas the SnO 2 -Zn based device displays a higher a of 0.990, suggesting the bimolecular recombination in the SnO 2 -Zn based device is suppressed. Figure  3 (g) shows the J-V curves of PSCs under dark conditions. Compared with the SnO 2 based device, a lower leakage current for the SnO 2 -Zn based device is observed, indicating more charge carriers effectively passing through the PSCs instead of direct shunting and further confirm the enhanced electronic extraction capability of SnO 2 -Zn ETL. Enhanced carrier transfer and minimized nonradiative recombination in PSCs were further substantiated by the Mott-Schottky analysis. The results in Fig.  3 (h) suggest a built-in voltage (V bi ) of 0.95 V for the SnO 2 based device and a higher V bi of 1.04 V for the SnO 2 -Zn based device, which means a stronger internal driving force for separating the carriers by Zn doped SnO 2 . We further used transient photovoltage decay (TPV) technique to characterize the solar cells (Fig.  S12 ). The charge-recombination lifetime s1 of device with SnO 2 -Zn is longer than that of the device with pristine SnO 2 (11.2 ls vs 2.5 ls), indicating reduced recombination rates at the SnO 2 -Zn/ perovskite interface. In the end, the unencapsulated devices based on SnO 2 -Zn ETL sustain over 90% of their initial efficiency after stored in the ambient atmosphere (RH ¼ 20% 6 5%) for 1000 h, whereas only 62% of original efficiency left for the SnO 2 based devices [Fig.  3(i) ]. These results clearly indicate that highly efficient and stable PSCs could be achieved by developing ZnCl 2 doped SnO 2 ETLs. In conclusion, we proved that ZnCl 2 doping in SnO 2 ETL is a simple and low-cost passivation method, which can significantly passivate defects of SnO 2 thanks to the inducing of H þ and Cl À and enhance electronic extraction capability. Meanwhile, we demonstrated that ZnO, rather than ZnCl 2 , existed in the deposited SnO 2 -Zn film. Hence, the conduction band minimum (CBM) of the SnO 2 -Zn ETL was higher than that of bare SnO 2 and exhibited proper energy alignment with perovskite. In addition, doping of ZnCl 2 can significantly suppress the hysteresis effect of PSCs. In the end, the ZnCl 2 doped SnO 2 delivered a PCE of 24.12% with V OC of 1.16 V for the best PSC. We anticipate that this study may re-attract attention to simple and inexpensive inorganic passivation molecules to improve the performance of perovskite solar cells. See the supplementary material for the device preparation and characterization methods, the UV-vis absorption spectra of the ETLs (Figs. S1 and S2), XPS spectra of O 1s and Sn 3d (Figs. S3 and S4), the SEM images of ETLs films (Fig.  S5 ), AFM height images of ETLs (Fig.  S6 ), the UV-vis absorption spectra and UPS measurement for the perovskite film (Fig.  S7 ), TRPL spectra of perovskite films (Fig.  S8 ), statistical distributions of photovoltaic parameters (Fig.  S9 ), forwardscan (FS) and reverse scan (RS) J-V curves (Fig.  S10 ), the dependency of J SC on light intensity (Fig.  S11 ), and transient photovoltage measurements (Fig.  S12 ). 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films to investigate the interaction between ZnCl 2 and SnO 2 . The existences of Zn and Cl in the SnO 2 -Zn film were confirmed by the Zn and Cl signals. As shown in Fig. 1(b), the SnO 2 -Zn film exhibits a binding energy at 1021.56 eV belonging to Zn 2p, while there is no peak in the bare SnO 2 film. 
 Figure 2 (FIG. 1 . 21 FIG. 1. (a) Device structure of planar perovskite solar cells and schematic fabrication process of SnO 2 -Zn composite ETL. XPS spectra of (b) Zn 2p and (c) Cl 2p in SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films. (d) KPFM images of SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films. 
 FIG. 2 . 2 FIG. 2. (a) and (b) UPS measurement for bare SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn films. (c) Energy level diagram of SnO 2 , SnO 2 -Zn, and perovskite films according to UPS results. (d) Schematic energy diagram of PSC device with SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn ETLs. (e) Steady-state PL spectra and (f) SCLC curves of the devices with the structure of SnO 2 /perovskite and SnO 2 -Zn/perovskite. 
 FIG. 3 . 3 FIG. 3. (a) J-V curves of the champion devices based on SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn ETLs under reverse scans. (b) EQE spectra and (c) histogram of PCE distribution for SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn ETLs based devices. (d) The distribution of hysteresis index for SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices. (e) Stabilized J SC and PCE of the SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices, (f) light intensity dependence on V OC plots, (g) J-V curves of PSCs under dark condition, and (h) C-V curves for SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices. (i) Stability of unencapsulated SnO 2 and SnO 2 -Zn based devices in the ambient atmosphere (RH ¼ 20% 6 5%). 
 
 
			 Appl. Phys. Lett. 124, 033901 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0186904 
			 Published under an exclusive license by AIP Publishing
Paper #: 14884_2

Sign In Sign In The Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org Explore AIP Publishing and our portfolio by logging into your account profile. Access published articles, information about our partnerships, individual publications, and submit your next manuscript.
Searching the Platform From the homepage you can conduct a basic, advanced, or citation search across our content platform. 
 Search Results When search results appear, you can: • Filter by format, topic, subject, or journal   In the left-hand column, you can view the cover image, jump to a specific type of article, or view articles by topic. 
 Accessing an Article Institutional customers access content via registered IP ranges. If you try to view content from an unauthorized IP address, you will be asked to select your method of access as shown here. If you do not have access through your institution, you have the option to log in as an individual subscriber, purchase standard PPV, or view the article via Open Athens or Shibboleth. 
 Sign In 
 Viewing an Article IP authenticated users can access articles without creating a profile. However to benefit from all tools available we encourage users to create a profile. From an article, users can: • Save searches • Sign up for RSS feeds • View in a split screen • Download an article as a PDF • Sign up for journal alerts • View author affiliations and ORCID, where provided • View and download article citations • Add to your "favorites" • "Share" the article through social media and Reddit • View article metrics 
 • Access related articles Most articles are accessible as HTML or PDF. If only one format is available, the navigation bar will be updated to reflect the version offered. If available, supplementary data will be displayed in the left navigation. 
 Article Icons The blue circle icons next to certain article titles indicate if it is a: • Featured Article • Editor's Pick • Scilight A Scilight, a science highlight, is a professional summary of significant developments in a particular field of research. The articles that are chosen for Scilight are recommended by the research-active editors of AIP Publishing's journals. 
 Sign In 
 Article Figures & Split Screen Option Select "views" to toggle between "figures & tables" and "article contents". Article "figures & tables" can be downloaded directly as a PowerPoint presentation with citations or as a High-res image. The newly added split screen feature offers readers a way to read an article and view the figures, references, and related content alongside each other. 
 Article Metrics & Citations When available, article metrics can be viewed by selecting "View Metrics" in the upper right-corner of the page. As articles receive "views" and "citations" they will be calculated and updated daily. (Note: article metrics are cumulative from 12/13/2016 onwards). 
 Sign In Sign In 
 Sign In Article citations can be viewed by selecting "Web of Science" or "Crossref" 
 Related Content A list of related content is found to the right of the article under "Related Content". 
 Sharing an Article Click on the share button to share an article via Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or LinkedIn. 
 Sign In Sign In 10 Navigating Books Our books are fully integrated with our journals and are designed to help researchers at every stage of their career to discover new developments, investigate new techniques, and explore key concepts in emerging areas of science. 
 Select the book type to view titles within each category Accessing the Books Homepage 
 pubs.aip.org/books Browse: Access our books by publication date, type, or author 
 Book Title Page The title page offers an easy to navigate overview with a description, short links to the book information, access options, and metrics. 
 Buy this Book: purchase a PDF version of this book Abstract: read the book abstract 
 PDF: download individual book chapters Share, Tools, Cite: share via social media or Reddit, and download citation information. Buy Print: offers individual an option to purchase a personal softcover copy of this book myBook: offers readers at institutions with an active license an exclusive option to purchase a discounted B&W copy • Publishers: Learn about AIP Publishing and our publishing partners • Publications: View our journals, Physics Today magazine, conference proceedings and our books • Special Topics: Access the latest special topics across our publications • Authors: View author resources and learn about publishing • Librarians: View librarian resources and learn about access options • About: Learn about our mission Most Recent: View some of the most recently published articles across our journal portfolio Submit your article: Find the right journal to share your latest discovery worldwide Sign up for Alerts: register for journal and topic alerts to be delivered right to your inbox • Search box: Search the platform by keyword, phrase, DOI, ISBN, author name, etc. • Magnifying glass: Click to run your search • Advanced search: simultaneously search by several parameters to tailor your results • Citation search: Search by journal, volume and page number Sign In Basic Search: search the platform by a specific phrase or term Advanced Search: the search options below will appear, allowing you to utilize more than one search term or phrase, and apply filters to your search. 
 Article Search by Citation from Journal HomepageFrom the top of the journal homepage, you can search by citation. For the most accurate results, fill in the journal name, volume and page number. 
 
 • Sort by relevance or publication date Sign In Sign In Citation Search: select the journal name and include the volume and page number. 
 After clicking on "Browse" you are directed to the current issue and can navigate to previously published issues. Here you can view an article's abstract or the article in full. Browse: Viewing the Latest Issue From the navigation bar you can access: • Home: navigate to journal homepage by clicking here • Browse: view the latest issue • Collections: view special issues, press releases, tutorials, and more Learn about the journal and the editorial board, and access the current issue • For Authors: information on preparing and submitting a manuscript • About: learn about the journal, its scope, editorial board and development team, and more. Submit your article Sign up for journal alerts Select articles of interest View some of the most recently published articles Access "most read" articles Sign In
